Chapter Three.

“Welcome to Japan. My name is Fumiko Seto.”

My host “sister” steps forward. She has a shy smile and a heart-shaped face. Her black hair is cut in a fashionable shoulder- length style. She is wearing her school uniform. The other Japanese kids are also wearing uniforms. The boys’ black pants and collarless jackets look military. The girls’ plaid skirts, black blazers and white blouses look like Canadian private school uniforms. Suzuka High is a public school, though. Compared to the Japanese kids we look pretty grubby and travel worn. Except for Melissa, who must have touched up her makeup and hair.

“This is my mother and father,” Fumiko tells me, gesturing toward the man and woman standing beside her. Her English is good, which is a relief.

“Hi,” I say, forgetting that I’d planned to say konbanwa, Japanese for good evening.

My host mom and dad smile and bow. Then they take turns shaking my hand. I can tell that they don’t understand much English. But they seem friendly and kind. Mr. Seto is not much taller than me, and his hair is threaded with gray. Mrs. Seto is shorter than me. Her face is an older version of Fumiko’s. Mr. Seto picks up my suitcase and says something in Japanese. I figure it means follow me, please.

“I am sorry my older brother, Kenji, could not come to the train station,” Fumiko says as we follow her dad.

“That’s okay,” I say. I’m curious and a bit nervous about this older brother.

As we reach the doors I look back at the rest of the kids from my school. They have all split off with their host families. A stab of panic shoots through me, but I shove it aside. I’m glad to be getting away from them.

“Sayonora, suckers!” I say under my breath.

Ahead of me Melissa moves through the doors. She glances over her shoulder. For a second, her eyes look like a scared little kid’s. Then she notices me and glares.

The Setos usher me out to a boxy van with Honda Stepwagon Spada written in English on the side.

“My father works for Honda,” Fumiko says, sounding proud.

Mr. Seto gestures for me to get into the front of the car. There is an awkward moment when I try to climb into the driver’s seat. I forgot that driving on the opposite side of the road means driving on the opposite side of the car. Eventually I make it into the passenger seat. I lean back, ready for sleep, but excitement and nerves keep my eyes open. Driving through shadowy unfamiliar streets with three strangers, I suddenly feel very far away from home.

We pull up to the Setos’ house, which is crowded between other houses on one side of a narrow road. They all look pretty much like North American houses but not so large. Many of the roofs have curving eaves. Across the street is a black empty area, with more houses beyond that. As I climb out of the car, I hear odd creaking sounds coming from the blackness. I can’t see what is out there.

Inside the Setos’ house is a small entrance that is lower than the rest of the house. I take off my shoes, which I know you are supposed to do in Japan. Still, I get the feeling I have done something wrong. Mrs. Seto quickly sets a pair of blue cloth slippers on the upper level in front of me. Fumiko touches my arm.

“Like this,” she says. She steps out of her shoes and right up to the next level and into a pair of slippers.

“The lower floor is for shoes only,” she explains.

I am standing on the shoe-only floor with my socks.

“Oh, sorry!” I say. I jump into the slippers, feeling foolish.

Mrs. Seto holds out her hand as if I am a scared animal she is trying to calm. She gives me a confused smile. Fumiko laughs, covering her mouth with one hand.

“It’s okay,” Fumiko says. “Everyone forgets some time.”

Who knew shoes would be such an issue?

Mr. and Mrs. Seto exchange words in Japanese, and a new voice joins in. I look up and meet the dark brown eyes of a shaggy- haired teenaged boy. He doesn’t smile.

Fumiko introduces her brother, Kenji.

“I am happy to meet you,” he says stiffly, like he’s reciting from an English textbook.

A look passes between Fumiko and her mother, and there is an awkward silence. Then Fumiko touches my arm again.

“Come, please,” she says. “I’ll show you our house.”

Her mother stalls her with a few words of Japanese.

“I’m sorry.” Fumiko turns to me, looking embarrassed. “You must be tired. I should have asked if you want to go to your room.”

This time it’s Mr. Seto who cuts in.

“My father suggests you might be hungry,” she says. “Would you like to eat?”

I glance from one attentive face to the other. Only Kenji hangs back, looking bored. Suddenly I feel overwhelmed. All I want to do is escape to a soft bed—or even a hard futon. A picture flashes into my mind of a Japanese wooden pillow I’d seen in a book. But at that moment I don’t care what they give me to sleep on.

The house tour is postponed. Mrs. Seto excuses herself to prepare me a bath. I think I am about to learn that baths are different here too. After some urging by his father, Kenji picks up my suitcase. Fumiko and I follow him up a steep set of stairs. Kenji pushes open a door at the top landing and sets my suitcase down. I step into the room, relieved and a bit disappointed to see a short soft-looking bed. No futon on the floor and no wooden pillow.

I start to thank Kenji, but he is already gone. What’s his problem? I wonder, but I’m too tired to think about it now.

Fumiko shows me the bathroom, which is steaming up from the hot water pouring into a deep tub. The floor is tiled, and there is a shower nozzle and hose attached to the wall beside the bathtub.

“Where’s the toilet?” I ask.

“Down the hall,” Fumiko explains. “In Japan the bath is separate. In the old days, people did not have a bath in their homes at all. They went to a bathhouse.”

“That sounds kind of fun,” I say.

Fumiko turns off the water. “There, it’s ready now.” Seeing my confused look, she adds, “You sit on the chair to wash first.”

She points to a small plastic stool beside the tub. “Or stand and shower if you like. Then you can get into the bath and relax. Take as long as you like.”

“Do you want me to empty the water out of the tub after?” I ask.

“No, my mother will drain it when we have all finished.”

I get it now. You wash first to keep the water clean. It’s like a hot tub, but with people taking turns instead of getting in all at once. Maybe in the old days they all bathed together in the bathhouse.

“I will say good night now,” Fumiko says. “But if you need anything, please ask.”

“Thanks,” I tell her. “I’ll be okay.”

I lock the door behind Fumiko. It feels good to be alone.

When I step under the shower, I imagine I am washing away my old life. I lower myself into the steaming tub. I feel like I’m sinking into Japan and whatever comes next.