Chapter Four.

I wake up feeling warm and cozy. I’m ready for my first day in Japan. I fling off the covers and jump out of bed. I pad barefoot to the window and push open the curtains.

Whoa! I am looking at a rice paddy. That’s what the dark space was across the street. It’s the size of a city block, flooded with water and surrounded by houses. The sun is beginning to rise over the rooftops.

Short tufts of green poke out of the water in dotted lines. A crow flaps lazily across the field and lands on a roof.

I’m not sure what I expected, but it is not to see a rice paddy in the middle of the city. Today should be interesting.

Now, what am I going to wear for my Japanese school debut? I choose a short lime green plaid kilt and a purple T-shirt. It clashes nicely with my hair. Not a look Melissa and her friends will love. At least I won’t look like everyone else.

When I go downstairs for breakfast, Mr. Seto has already left for work. Fumiko, Kenji and I sit at a North American-style table. Mrs. Seto sets out boiled eggs in little cups, bowls of yogurt and thick slices of white bread. Again, it’s not what I expected. I soon learn that this is the Setos’ idea of a North American’s breakfast.

“This is good,” I tell Mrs. Seto through Fumiko. “But I’d like to try a Japanese breakfast while I’m here.”

Mrs. Seto smiles and nods, looking pleased.

Across the table Kenji glowers. He pushes aside his yogurt and gets up, muttering in Japanese.

“He has to get to school early for soccer practice,” Fumiko explains.

I wonder what he really said. Kenji seems like a jerk. But then he smiles at his mom and says something that must mean thanks for breakfast.

After breakfast, Fumiko gives me a tour of the house. It includes a special room that has tatami mats on the floor. They are made from some kind of grass. There’s a little wooden alter by the far wall and a special alcove called a tokonoma. There is a vase of flowers on a shelf and a scroll painting in the alcove, but there are no other decorations in the room. We have to take our slippers off before stepping inside. Not even slippers are allowed on the tatami floor. Fumiko explains that in the old days this would have been a typical room in a Japanese house.

Fumiko also shows me her bedroom. It is small with a pink bedspread and matching pink curtains with frills. She has a tiny cluttered desk and posters of Japanese pop stars on the walls.

My eyes zero in on a colorful book on the desk.

“Is that manga?” I ask.

“Yes,” Fumiko answers, her eyes lighting up. “Do you like manga?” She pronounces it munga.

“Some,” I say, trying not to sound too excited. She pulls the book out from under the papers and hands it to me. The title is in Japanese. The cover shows an image of a girl with a large head and huge liquid- looking eyes.

“Do you have any other manga?” I ask. I try to keep the disappointment out of my voice. This looks like it is for little kids.

“Oh yes,” Fumiko says, digging through the clutter on the desk.

She holds up another book. I recognize the blue cat on the cover. Doraemon, the robot cat from the future. More kid stuff.

“Do you have any Full Metal Alchemist or Bleach?” I ask.

“Ah, you know those manga?” she says, impressed.

“Yeah, we have them in Canada,” I say.

“You like adventure manga?” she asks.

“I guess you could call it that.”

“I like more…,” she pauses, searching for the right English word, “…light-hearted manga.”

“Oh.” She likes the cutesy stuff with the big eyes.

“Kenji’s favorite is sports manga. But he might have one of the kind you like,” Fumiko says. “You could ask him after school.”

“Sure,” I say. Though I can’t picture Kenji lending me something of his.

We hurry back downstairs. Fumiko explains that she usually takes the train to school, but this morning her mom will drive us. Mrs. Seto has packed our lunches in small plastic boxes. She gives me a lunch box wrapped in blue fabric.

Mrs. Seto drops us off outside the school gates. The gates will be closed when school starts, Fumiko explains.

“They lock you in?” I ask.

“Oh no,” she says, her eyes wide. “Students can get in and out, but no cars can drive in.”

The building is large and modern. We join the crowd of students walking and riding bikes into the grounds. Most of them look at me with interest. Mr. Akimoto, the teacher who met us at the airport, is standing by the school.

“Ohayo gozaimasu, sensei,” Fumiko greets him with a slight bow.

I copy her. I am not sure how to bow, so I omit that bit.

“Good morning, young ladies,” Mr. Akimoto says, smiling broadly.

In the foyer everyone is switching from shoes to green plastic slippers. Fumiko finds slippers for me. We store our shoes in her cubbyhole. There are no lockers.

We are greeted by squeals of excitement in the hallway. A pack of Japanese girls rushes up to us. Fumiko’s friends, obviously. Except for one slightly taller girl, they are all about the same size as Fumiko. I feel very large next to them.

Fumiko introduces me. The other girls are shy as they say hello. Then they turn back to each other and talk all at once. The shortest girl has a backpack with about twenty little plastic toys hanging from it. She says something that sounds like kow- wah-ee, in an excited voice.

The other girls look me over and nod.

“Kawaii means cute,” Fumiko explains. “They think your outfit is cute.”

Cute is not exactly what I was going for, but I smile and thank them.

“Kow-wa…,” I try, not getting it right.

They all laugh and repeat the word.

“Kawaii,” I say, pointing at the little toys dangling from the backpack. In the name of international relations, I give no sign that the toys make me want to gag. What is it with all this cute stuff?

“Hai,” the girls agree in Japanese. They seem pleased with my efforts.

“Do you like shopping?” the shorter girl asks.

Shopping? What kind of question is that? I shrug.

“Sometimes, I guess.”

“Yeah, shopping at Value Village,” interjects a male English voice.

I turn to see DJ’s mocking grin. He ducks as if expecting me to punch him.

“Is that a store in Canada?” Fumiko asks.

“Yeah, a store he can’t afford to shop at,” I say loudly after DJ’s retreating back.

I follow Fumiko into her classroom. She finds an extra chair so I can sit beside her. The girls gather on one side of the classroom and the boys on the other. They don’t mix like we do back home.

Fumiko’s friends cluster around us, whispering. I get the feeling they are working up to asking me something. Finally the taller girl is pushed forward.

“Do you…?” she begins. She falters and turns to Fumiko.

Words fly around the group. The others seem to be urging Fumiko to ask the question now. She looks embarrassed.

“Do you dye your hair?” Fumiko finally asks.

I laugh. This is their big question? “Of course,” I tell them. “My real color is light brown.”

They all talk at once again. Fumiko tells me that students are not allowed to color their hair. The school has strict rules about personal appearance.

“What about that girl?” someone asks. She points across the room. A crowd has gathered around Melissa. Figures. Of course I get stuck in the same class as her.

“Does she dye hers?” Fumiko asks, her eyes on Melissa’s pale blond mane.

I’m tempted to say yes, but I know that her hair has been that color since she was small.

“No, that’s her real hair,” I admit.

Fumiko’s friends look impressed. At that moment, my eyes meet Melissa’s.

They catch for only a second. Then she looks through me, as if I am invisible. I wish I had told Fumiko’s friends that her hair is phony—just like the rest of her.

A loud student voice at the back of the room calls out some kind of command. The Japanese students immediately stand behind their desks. A teacher walks up to a podium at the front of the room and bows. The Japanese students bow back.

Homeroom lasts about five minutes. Next we have English class. Today the Canadian kids stand at the front of the room and answer questions: Do you like bands? Do you play basketball? Etcetera. Most of the students’ English is not as good as Fumiko’s. We have to speak very slowly.

There is a ten-minute break between classes to give the teacher time to move to the next class. The students stay in the same room. Math is next. I don’t understand what the teacher is saying, but I can read the numbers on the board, so I can follow some of it. There are two more classes before lunch break. I am soon totally out of it and totally bored.

For lunch we stay in the classroom. Fumiko and her friends push their desks together, so that we can talk. I unknot the blue cloth around my lunch box, feeling like I’m unwrapping a present. The box is divided into compartments. The biggest one contains rice. On top of the rice is a pink thing that Fumiko says is pickled plum. There is also a piece of fish, some green beans—all cold—and a slice of apple. The apple is cut so that the peel looks like pointy rabbit ears. Very kawaii. Aside from the apple, it’s the kind of meal I’m used to having hot, but it’s pretty good.

After the lunch break Fumiko and her friends get ready for the next class. I stand up and look for the rest of my group. Time for our tour of the city.