Chapter Seven.

The next morning I ask Fumiko if I can borrow a couple of her manga books.

“Sure,” she says, “but wouldn’t you rather borrow some from Kenji?”

“No, that’s okay,” I say quickly. “I should give Doraemon a try.”

We head down to breakfast. I have Doraemon and another manga under my arm.

“Ohayo gozaimasu,” I say to Mrs. Seto.

Kenji is at the table eating what looks like miso soup. He’s using his chopsticks to pick things out of the bowl.

“Hi,” I say, sitting down and setting my books on the table beside me. Fumiko sits next to me.

Kenji looks up, grunts something and then goes back to eating. He is wearing a blue T-shirt under his uniform. I wonder if that’s against the school rules.

On the table in front of me is a bowl of soup, a bowl of rice and a small dish with a piece of fish and something else. I pull my soup closer and look for a spoon, but there are only chopsticks. Out of the corner of my eye I see Kenji pick up his soup bowl and drink from it. I pick up my bowl and do the same.

“Is this a typical Japanese breakfast?” I ask.

“Yes,” Fumiko says. She explains that the stuff with the fish is natto, fermented soya beans.

The pink plum I recognize from my lunch yesterday. I pick it up with my chopsticks and pop it in my mouth. Sour, but good.

I notice Kenjo sneak a look at me from under his bangs. His glance lingers on the manga beside me, but I can’t read his expression.

We have less time to get ready for school this morning since we have to walk to the train station. Mrs. Seto hands me my lunch.

“Arigato gosaimasu,” I tell her. Japanese words are starting to feel more natural.

We leave the house with Kenji, but as soon as we are out the door, another boy hails him. The boy is thin with longish hair. He pushes his hair away from his eyes to get a better look at me.

“Hi,” he says carefully. “My name is Takeshi. What is your name?” He grins, pleased with himself.

His smile is infectious. I can’t help smiling back.

“Hi, my name’s Dana,” I tell him.

He laughs and looks at Kenji as if it is hilarious that I answered. Like I’m a talking animal or something. This gets me annoyed.

“Hey, I’m still here,” I snap. “And yes, I can talk.”

He looks back surprised. Fumiko laughs, her hand over her mouth. Kenji scowls, but I ignore him. Takeshi grins at me again, and I smile back. He seems like the kind of guy you couldn’t stay mad at for long.

“Hey, you’ve got a blue T-shirt on too,” I say, seeing blue at his collar. “Isn’t that against the school rules?”

He continues to smile, but he obviously hasn’t a clue what I said. He turns to Kenji, who looks away. Fumiko translates.

“Ahh!” Takeshi’s grin broadens. He stops walking and begins to unbutton his shirt. Kenji looks embarrassed.

“Japan soccer team!” Takeshi says. He opens his uniform shirt to show me a blue soccer jersey with a black and white crest. The crest is a crow with three legs. The center leg is kicking a soccer ball.

“Cool,” I say.

“Cool,” Takeshi repeats. “Sugoi.”

“Sugoi means cool?” I ask.

Takeshi nods and grins broadly.

“Why does the team crest have a three- legged crow?” I ask.

This time Takeshi turns to Fumiko right away. She translates my question. The two boys talk for a minute. Then Takeshi turns back to me and shrugs. Kenji looks away.

“I don’t know, either,” Fumiko says, embarrassed.

“That’s okay,” I say and change the subject. “So, they don’t get in trouble for wearing a T-shirt under their uniforms?”

“They’ll get in trouble if they don’t button their shirts over top,” Fumiko says.

Kenji is a few paces ahead of us now, and Takeshi hurries to catch up to him. Kenji and Takeshi walk on together, their backs to us. Takeshi turns around briefly to include us with a grin. If I’d thought Kenji’s unfriendliness was a Japanese boy thing, Takeshi has proved that wrong. I step closer to Fumiko.

“Why doesn’t Kenji like me?” I whisper.

Fumiko stops walking and looks at me with surprise. Then she looks down, embarrassed.

“Kenji likes you,” she says, but she won’t meet my eyes.

“He doesn’t talk to me,” I say.

“He thinks he can not speak English well. He does not want you to know,” she whispers. This time she does meet my eyes.

“You’re kidding?” My mouth drops open.

“No.” She shakes her head. “It’s true. It hurts his pride to admit his English is not good.”

I want to ask her more, but the boys have stopped to wait for us.

As we catch up, Takeshi gives me a teasing smile.

“Girls talk so much, they forget to walk,” he says, looking proud of his joke.

“Just giving you a chance to stop and admire us,” I say. I give him my best mocking imitation of a flirty Melissa smile.

He laughs. He may not understand what I said, but he knows at least that I’m teasing him. Kenji has turned away and started to walk again, so I can’t tell if he’s cracked any hint of a smile. If he does like me, he’s sure keeping it secret. Takeshi’s English isn’t very good, but it hasn’t stopped him from being friendly.

We funnel into the small train station, joining the line up in front of the ticket machines. Fumiko buys our tickets, and we push through the turnstile. We don’t wait for the boys. The platforms are crowded with kids in school uniforms and adults dressed for work. I don’t see any other Canadian kids. I am the only person in the whole crowd with red hair. Several people sneak looks at me.

We manage to find seats on the train. Some people have to stand. Takeshi and Kenji squeeze in to stand in front of us. As the train starts, a couple of students nearby get up the courage to ask Fumiko and the boys about me. Soon all the kids on the train start to shift toward our end of the car. They call out questions and press close to listen. I feel like a celebrity—though Fumiko does most of the talking.

When we get off the train, we walk a few blocks to the school. Most of the train crowd is with us. I walk with Fumiko and the other girls. Kenji and Takeshi drift off with the guys. The girls press close, giggling and excited. One taller girl is encouraged to stretch to her full height next to me while the others compare us. The girl is still a couple of inches shorter than me. They all exclaim over how tall I am.

It’s weird to have all these girls buzzing around me. I wonder if this is what it feels like to be part of the Melly Mob—to have everyone pay attention to you instead of pretending you don’t exist.