Chapter Two.

“We are beginning our descent,\u201D the captain’s voice announces. “We will land at Nagoya airport in thirty minutes.\u201D.

Finally! This is it. We are closing in on a patchwork of small green and brown fields. It’s getting dark, so I can barely make out the colors. Alongside the fields are the gray shapes of buildings.

Disappointment nudges through me. I guess I expected the clouds to part and everything below to dazzle like jewels. But the view is dull and gray and no different from Vancouver.

It’s just the weather and the fading light, I tell myself. It’ll get better.

Inside the airport, we could be anywhere. There are just as many English signs as there are Japanese ones. I step onto a moving walkway as a recorded female voice says “please watch your step\u201D in perfect English. The voice also says something in Japanese that must mean the same thing. We pass through customs and head to the baggage claim.

By now, I’m watching for a washroom. I see a sign with the English word toilet. On one door is a small blue man-shaped image. On the other door is a small, pink, woman image. I push open the pink door and step inside. I’m followed by a couple of other girls from our group. The washroom is clean and modern. I open the door to the first empty stall and freeze.

For a second, I wonder if I picked the wrong washroom. I’m staring at a men’s urinal, but it’s on the floor. It’s a Japanese- style toilet, I realize. Now I feel like I’m in a different place.

“What the hell is that?\u201D a familiar voice complains.

I look over my shoulder. Melissa is standing in front of a stall, one hand on her hip.

“You stand over it and squat,\u201D I say. Then I step into my own stall as if I know exactly what I’m doing.

The look on Melissa’s face is worth the price of this whole trip.

“Well, that’s it. I’m holding it,\u201D I hear Melissa say. I am still laughing to myself as I reach the baggage claim area.

In the airport lobby, a Japanese man in a black suit introduces himself as Mr. Akimoto. He is our host teacher from Suzuka High School. He has a round face lit by a welcoming smile. His thick black hair fits him like a tight hat.

We follow Mr. Akimoto out of the airport, pulling our suitcases behind us. I look around, hungry for my first glimpse of Japan. But it’s dark out now. I can’t see much past the concrete of the airport. It’s warm, though, and more humid than spring in Vancouver. I take a deep breath of Japanese air.

“Aren’t we getting taxis?\u201D Melissa asks.

As he leads us toward a covered walkway Mr. Akimoto explains that the airport is built on an artificial island. We have to take a ferry across Ise Bay to get to Suzuka. I squint, trying to make out the lights on the other side of the dark bay. All I can see are a few fuzzy spots that aren’t quite as black.

A tall, sleek, white boat pulls in to the dock, and we walk on. The interior of the ferry is super modern—bright lights, airplane-style seats, tvs hanging from the ceiling. I feel a sense of unreality as I sink into my comfortable chair. Fatigue hits me. It’s about three in the morning Canada-time, I realize. I have been awake for nineteen hours.

We get off the ferry at a place called Tsu. I notice a few short palm trees, which I wasn’t expecting. Several teenage boys are skateboarding in the parking lot. We look over at them with interest. Mr. Akimoto guides us to a waiting bus.

We board through the back door. As we struggle to find space for all of our suitcases, I look out at the skateboarders. Dressed in loose T-shirts and slouchy pants, they could be kids anywhere. One boy with spiky black hair reminds me of a manga character—the cocky, rebellious hero type. I feel a tingle of anticipation. What will my host family be like? Will I meet someone like that manga boy?

The bus drives on the left side of the road, which is a bit unnerving. The streets seem darker than back home. There are large signs everywhere with Japanese writing. No English now. The bus pulls up in front of a train station, and we file out of the front door. Mr. Akimoto pays for us as we leave.

“Everything here is backward,\u201D Melissa complains.

“Yeah,\u201D Zach agrees with a laugh.

My hackles rise. Was Melissa always this anal?

“Maybe it’s you that’s backward,\u201D I say. Melissa and several of the others turn and stare at me. Then their eyes glaze over as if I’m not here.

“Did you hear something?\u201D Melissa says to the girl beside her.

The girl shrugs. “No, just a weird buzzing sound. Street noise, I guess.\u201D.

They turn their backs on me—as if I care.

On the train, I notice an ad with a manga- style illustration of a woman’s face. Cool. Mr. Akimoto tells us that we will be in Suzuka in twenty minutes. We will meet our host families at the station. I clutch my backpack tightly, feeling my stomach begin to flutter. I’m not sure if I’m nervous or just excited. Soon I will be rid of Melissa and the others—at least for a while.