Chapter One.

I stare out the window as the airplane taxis down the runway. With my back to the other seats, I can almost forget I have to share my two weeks in Japan with Melissa Muller and the others. The Melly Mob, I call them. If you’ve ever seen a gang of crows mob some poor raven, you can figure out why.

Melissa and her friends flock together like crows. If they don’t like you or your clothes or your hair color—pomegranate red, being my latest—they don’t exactly dive-bomb you. But they have a way of looking at you that says you rate about the same as bird crap.

A thrill leaps through me as we lift off. We rise into the clouds, and Vancouver disappears. I’m glad to see it go. Outside there is nothing but whiteness. It feels like I’m in a magic passageway between worlds. At the other end of all this whiteness is a different place.

I turn away from the window and glance around the inside of the plane. I don’t know the girl beside me other than her name, Maya Contina. She’s talking across the aisle to a friend. Ignoring me. A couple of rows back, Melissa is sitting beside her boyfriend, Zach Bellows. Their heads are bent together. Someone throws a scrunched-up piece of paper at them. Zach laughs and throws the paper back. Melissa pretends to be annoyed, but it’s obvious she likes the attention. She is wearing even more makeup than usual. I am wearing a lot of black eyeliner myself but only because I want to look different. Melissa looks like she’s trying to be some kind of phony fashion model. All her clothes are name brand, and she keeps flipping her long blond hair off her shoulders.

Melissa’s eyes snap onto mine as if she’s sensed me. I give her a bored look. She looks away. For a second, I’d swear she almost squirmed. A bit of the old Mel showing through? I turn forward again. Nah. There is nothing left of the Mel that used to be my best friend.

The seat belt sign is off now, and I pull my backpack out from under the seat. I take out my MP3 player and my sketchbook, flip open the book and begin to draw.

With light pencil strokes, I sketch the shape of a body and face. I draw over the lines more heavily as I get them the way I want. I draw manga-style eyes—but not too large. I add two sections of hair that sweep off the girl’s face like raven wings.

As I lean over the sketchbook, my own hair falls like a red curtain around my face. I am in my own world. But I can feel the others noticing me and pretending they don’t.

Maybe I’ll fit in better in Japan. At least I know about manga and anime—Japanese graphic novels and animation. I’ve been a fan since the first episode of Sailor Moon that I saw as a kid. I quickly discovered other stuff after that and went from tv shows to manga books. The character I’m drawing now is influenced by the darker manga I’ve been into lately.

Woosh! The sketchbook flies out of my hand.

“Let’s see what you’re working on, Red,” a boy’s voice says.

“Hey!” I twist around, yanking my earbuds loose. I come face to face with DJ, the most annoying guy in our school. Just my luck to be seated right in front of him.

“My name is Dana,” I tell him with a knife-edge glare.

I grab for the book, and DJ holds it out of my reach, laughing. I want to slap the taunting grin off his face. “It speaks! It speaks!” he says. He’s lucky my hands can’t reach his throat.

“Give me the book,” I order under my breath. By now everyone is watching. Everyone except for Mr. Crawford and Ms. Delucci, our teachers. They are busy ignoring the morons they are supposed to be watching.

I make another lunge for the book, and DJ jerks it away again. Unfortunately for him, there’s not much space in an airplane seat. I grab a handful of his hair.

He gives a sort of squeal. It is part surprised pain and part laughter. Then he tosses the book. The next thing I know, my sketchbook is in the hands of Zach Bellows. He starts flipping through the pages.

I force myself not to scream, though I am bursting with anger. For a second, I catch Melissa’s eye and glare. If she has any memory of our friendship at all, she knows how much I hate people looking at my private drawings.

Mustering extreme willpower, I turn away and sit down. If I pretend I don’t care about the book, they should lose interest. Unless they start making fun of the drawings. I feel a surge of panic.

“Here, pass this over,” a girl’s voice whispers from the aisle.

The next thing I know, Maya drops the sketchbook into my lap.

“What did you do that for?” DJerk complains.

I look past Maya to see Melissa making her way back to her own seat.

“The movie’s about to start,” she says, giving him a flirty smile. “It’ll be hard to watch with you guys throwing stuff around.”