Chapter Nine.

At the temple, I check in with Ms. Delluci and Mr. Crawford. A few people are already sitting on the stairs eating their lunches. DJ and another guy are kicking a hacky sack around in the middle of the courtyard. I walk past them, ignoring the comment DJ throws at me.

At the other end of the courtyard is a shrine with a statue of a kneeling bald guy inside. Someone has tied a cloth baby’s bib around the statue’s neck. The bib is faded and weathered—like it’s been there for a while.

Suddenly something thuds into the side of my head. I whirl around.

“Sorry about that, Red,” DJ calls loudly. The hacky sack is lying on the ground at my feet.

“Yeah, right,” I say under my breath.

“Can you throw it back?” he has the nerve to ask.

Not likely. I give him a look of disgust and turn away.

There is a little gate at the back of the courtyard. I walk through it, ignoring DJ. I follow a path that leads to a garden. There is a small pond in the middle of the garden and a narrow path winding around it. I find a bench behind a tree, sit down and take out my lunch. On the other side of the pond, low-hanging trees and shrubs flow down the hill like a waterfall. Maybe I’ll take my sketchbook out after I eat. Maybe instead of working on my manga girl I’ll try drawing the pond.

As I unwrap my lunch, I notice a ceramic frog with a baby frog on its back. Is that what the frogs in the rice paddies look like? Is it just decoration or does it mean something? There are so many things in Japan that are still a mystery to me. I don’t know how I ever thought I would fit in here.

After lunch I am forced to head back. The bus is waiting at the temple. Reluctantly, I walk to the back of the group.

“Dana!”

I turn to see Fumiko making her way through the crowd. Behind her, Melissa looks annoyed.

“Are you okay?” Fumiko asks. “I was worried when I couldn’t find you.”

“Yeah, I’m fine,” I say, a little snappier than I intend. What is it with her and her family? Why don’t they want me to go anywhere on my own?

“Why didn’t you wait for me?” she asks.

“You were busy translating,” I say. It sounds like an accusation.

Fumiko stares at me for just a second.

She looks confused and maybe hurt. Then she looks down.

“Your friends asked a lot of questions,” she says.

“They’re not my friends,” I tell her.

Fumiko and I climb onto the bus together, not talking. When the bus is full, Mr. Crawford raises a hand for our attention.

“I’ve just heard from Mr. Akimoto,” he says. “Our special trip is a go.”

“So, are you going to fill us in?” someone calls out.

He’s probably discovered another museum or old town for us to visit, I think.

Mr. Crawford is smiling. “Tomorrow,” he says, “we take the bullet train to Tokyo.”

A cheer explodes through the bus. More questions are thrown at the teachers.

“How long do we get to stay there?”

“Do the host kids get to come?”

We are going for three days, including travel. Just the group from Canada, plus Mr. Akimoto. My mind is jumping with images—like a crazy channel clicker. Tokyo. Tall buildings. Crowds of people. Manga studios. Modern stores. Lights. Signs. Everything.

I’m still lost in my imagination when Fumiko leans close to me.

“Have I done something wrong?” she asks.

“What?” I look at her, startled.

“Did I do something to make you angry?”

“Of course not,” I say sharply. Then I catch myself. This is Fumiko I’m talking to, not Melissa and the rest.

“Look,” I start again, making my voice softer. “I’m not mad at you. You didn’t do anything wrong. It’s just…”.

How can I explain?

“I think I understand,” she says quietly. “You said the others are not your friends… I think you are like Kenji.”

“What do you mean?” I demand.

“When he fears embarrassment, he is like a nut—hard on the outside.”

“I’m not embarrassed,” I tell her.

“Maybe not,” she says. “But maybe something else.” She looks at me sideways as if she is checking the impact of her words.

I force myself to swallow the angry comeback that rises in my throat. I’m not anything like Kenji.

Back at the Setos’ that night, I pack for the trip to Tokyo. I flip through the pages of Fumiko’s Doraemon manga. I wonder if I should bother taking it. It is mostly filled with drawings of the boy, Nobita, and Doraemon, the oversized cat. The people’s eyes are huge, and there are lots of exclamation marks coming off the faces to emphasize emotions. Doraemon pops out of a drawer, and Nobita is startled. Nobita eats an animal cracker and starts turning into a cat. Doraemon gets mad, more people get mad…But that’s about as much as I can figure out.

There is a knock on my door. I open it and am surprised to see Kenji standing there. He holds something out to me without meeting my eyes. A pile of manga books.

“Thanks,” I say as I take them. The one on the top is Full Metal Alchemist. Fumiko must have told him the type of manga I like.

We stand there for a second. Before I can think of anything to say, he walks away. I remember Fumiko saying that Kenji acts like a jerk to hide his embarrassment. Maybe it’s true, and he’s not so bad after all.

I close the door and sit on my bed, laughing to myself. I’m picturing a manga panel of me and Kenji looking at each other. Our emotions are drawn in Doraemon style. I look like Nobita when Doraemon climbs out of the drawer. My eyes bug out, my mouth opens wide. Lines of surprise shoot out around my head. Kenji has water drops of anxiety coming from his face or maybe crosshatched shading across his cheeks to show his embarrassment.

But if Fumiko is right about Kenji, is she also right about me?