Chapter Ten.

In the morning we take the express train to Nagoya. The trip is about an hour and a half. We buy bento box lunches in the Nagoya station while we wait for the train to Tokyo. The streamlined, white, bullet trains ease in and out of the station almost silently.

Finally we board one with a long rounded nose. The train is already full of people, so we have to spread out. I slip into an empty seat beside a Japanese businessman, so I don’t have to sit with anyone from our group. As the others settle into seats, Ms. Delucci walks up the aisle, counting heads and giving warnings. I sit back and dig into my cold bento box lunch. I stare past the man beside me and out the window. We soon leave the city behind. The train speeds through rolling farmland, rice paddies and clusters of houses with brown tile roofs. Occasionally I glimpse the ocean.

After about an hour and a half, Mr. Akimoto walks down the aisle, telling us to look out the windows on the left of the train. We may be able to see Mount Fuji, a sacred mountain. I’m on the opposite side of the train, so I have to look past the people across the aisle. I can’t see much.

“I think I see it!\u201D someone from our group calls out and is echoed by other voices, both English and Japanese.

A Japanese woman across the aisle steps out of her seat and gestures for me to take her spot so I can get a better view. I move over quickly, smile my thanks and bend to the window. There, now I see it. A brief glimpse of a white peak through a gap in the clouds.

“We’re lucky today,\u201D Mr. Akimoto says with a broad smile. “Mount Fuji does not always show itself.\u201D.

A few people point cameras out the window before the clouds swallow the mountain again. I return to my seat, thanking the woman once more. The businessman beside me smiles as I sit back down.

Seeing Mount Fuji has broken the ice on the train. There is a murmur of friendly voices the rest of the trip. Two hours after leaving Nagoya, we pull into Tokyo station. Anticipation bubbles through me. Tokyo, here I come!

We drop our bags at our hotel and then hit the subway. There are two maps of the subway on the wall. One has Japanese place names and one has English. The English doesn’t help. The map is a total maze of colored lines.

“We’re going to Ueno Park,\u201D Mr. Akimoto says, pointing toward the top of the English map.

“Now remember,\u201D Ms. Delucci warns. “We have to stick together. If anyone gets separated from the group, find a subway attendant. Ask them to page Mr. Akimoto, and then stay put.\u201D.

With a little luck, maybe we’ll lose Melissa and her groupies.

I half expect to see crowds of people being packed into subway cars by uniformed workers. I saw a clip of this on tv once. The workers were squeezing people in using something like push brooms. But it is not that bad now.

We finally emerge at Ueno Park. Unfortunately we haven’t lost anyone. It’s sunny out now. The wide sidewalk at the entrance to the park is lined with vendors selling food and souvenirs. Colorful banners with Japanese writing hang from many of the stalls.

Before Ms. Delucci has finished counting heads, DJ has bought a paper cone full of grilled meat. Melissa and a bunch of the girls are begging Mr. Crawford to let them get something before they faint from hunger. I can see that he is going to give in, so I head over to a stall selling shaved ice. I point to the red flavored syrup and hope for the best.

It turns out to be cherry and delicious.

Once everyone has food, we walk along the tree-lined sidewalk into the park. It’s obviously a popular place. There are people everywhere—babies in strollers, gray-haired grandparents. There are groups of picnickers sitting on plastic blankets. I even see a few people dressed in kimonos.

In the trees overhead, huge crows caw loudly. One swoops down in front of us to snatch food from the sidewalk. Melissa squeals, and Zach lunges at the crow to scare it away. It flies up to a low tree branch and squawks at Zach and Melissa. Everyone else laughs. Several more crows join the first one. They caw at us as we pass under the tree.

“The Tokyo National Museum is just ahead,\u201D Mr. Crawford tells us, raising his voice. “We’ll use the fountain in front of the museum as our meeting spot.\u201D.

“Do we have to go into the museum?\u201D someone asks.

Mr. Crawford narrows his eyes.

“Yes,\u201D he says. “This is a socials studies trip. I expect you to find at least two things in the museum to tell me about later.\u201D.

Everyone groans.

The museum is an older, creamy-colored, stone building. In front of the entrance is a long rectangular pond with a low round fountain in the center.

We make arrangements to meet by the pond in two hours.

“And remember,\u201D Mr. Crawford says, “I expect each of you to tell me about two things you learn about in there.\u201D.

With a group sigh, we head inside.

“He didn’t say how long we have to stay,\u201D I hear DJ whisper. “We look at two things; then we’re out of there.\u201D.