Chapter Twelve.

Zach follows Melissa. The crows fly to a tree branch and continue cawing.

I walk carefully down the path, keeping one eye on the crows. They squawk at me but let me pass. In the branches above them I see what might be a nest.

I catch up to Zach and Melissa at the bottom of the hill. Melissa is sitting on a bench, her face in her hands. Zach reaches out to pat her.

I should find this scene entertaining. It is totally poetic justice that Melissa was attacked by a mob of crows. But her crying is taking the fun out of it.

I’d like to walk away, but I need directions back to the museum. Maybe I should just hide where I can see them and then follow them. Before I can make a move, Zach looks up and raises his hands in surrender.

“I don’t know what to do,\u201D he says. “Everything is going wrong today…Can you tell us the way back to the museum?\u201D.

I stare at him for a few seconds.

“Come on,\u201D he says. “I don’t know what the big fight is between you and Melissa, but can’t you drop it for one day?\u201D.

By now Melissa has stopped crying and has turned away from us.

“Give it up, Zach,\u201D she grumbles. “She’s not going to help us.\u201D.

“She’s not gonna just leave us here, Mel,\u201D says Zach.

“Oh? Why are you suddenly such an expert on Dana Edwards?\u201D Melissa whirls around, her smudged mascara looks like war paint. She stares from Zach to me, her eyes accusing.

I remember the look she gave me when Zach talked to me at the stencil museum and how she pulled him away earlier today.

“You can’t possibly think Zach and I are having some kind of affair!\u201D I say, snorting with laughter.

“God!\u201D Zach sputters in protest.

“Why not?\u201D she says. “I’m sure you’re more fun to be with on this trip than I am.\u201D.

Whoa! That’s about the last thing I expected to come out of her mouth.

“What are you talking about?\u201D I say.

She starts crying again and throws up her hands.

“I hate it here!\u201D she wails. “I just want to go home. I only came on the trip because Zach was going. I hate Japanese food! I hate being surrounded by people I can’t understand! I hate the toilets! I never know the right thing to do…And you do everything right!\u201D.

Zach and I look at each other. He gives me a shrug and walks away a few steps. Somehow this has become all about me and Melissa. I sit down on the bench beside her.

“What do you mean?\u201D I ask. “I thought you hated everything I do.\u201D.

“Nothing bothers you,\u201D she says. “You do weird. I can’t.\u201D.

“Thanks,\u201D I say sarcastically.

“Nothing scares you,\u201D she says.

I assume by this she is admitting that things do scare her. I sneak a look at her face. Underneath the red eyes and tear-streaked makeup, I glimpse the Melissa I used to know. Part of me wants to respond in the old way and offer sympathy. I take a deep breath and look up at the trees where the crows have now settled. All their bluster is really to protect their nest. Maybe Melissa’s makeup and attitude is a form of protection. I remember how nervous she was about starting high school. She totally changed when we got there. She started wearing lots of makeup and trying to be Miss Popular. Was that how she dealt with being scared?

But then anger rises in me. Poor little frightened Melly. That doesn’t explain why she started being such a jerk to me.

“You’re so full of it, Mel,\u201D I snap. “You don’t even try to like anything new. You act like everything different is crap and you’re better than everyone else.\u201D.

She gives me a disgusted look.

“Look who’s talking,\u201D she sneers. “You’re the stuck-up queen.\u201D.

My mouth drops open. “What!? No way am I stuck-up!\u201D.

“Well, you could have fooled me!\u201D.

Zach takes a few steps toward us like he expects that we’ll be going for each other’s hair at any moment.

“Maybe you’re not stuck-up,\u201D Melissa adds in a quieter tone. “But you act like you hate everyone.\u201D.

She looks away when she says this. There is something odd in her voice—bitterness…or maybe hurt. It touches a raw place inside me. I’m tired of this pointless argument.

“Think that if you want!\u201D I say, turning my back on her.

“See,\u201D she says. “That’s just my point. You block everyone out. You act like you don’t care about anything. Ever since we started high school you act like you don’t even want people to like you. Like you’re hiding behind some tough shell.\u201D.

Tough shell. Fumiko told me I was like Kenji—hard on the outside. I slump back onto the bench and face her again.

“So, it’s my fault that you and your friends treat me like pond scum. And if I’d just be nicer to you,\u201D I make my voice sarcastically sweet, “you’d be nicer to me.\u201D.

She shrugs. “Something like that.\u201D.

“And if you’d been nicer to me when we started high school, instead of ditching me to hang out with your new friends,\u201D I continue in the same sugary voice, “I wouldn’t have acted like I hated you.\u201D.

“Maybe,\u201D she says.

Suddenly I feel tired. Has my hating her been an act? Did she really think that I cut her out first?