Chapter Fourteen.

We spend more time at the school during our last week. We even clean our classroom, which is a job students do in Japanese schools. It’s supposed to develop team spirit and responsibility. I guess it works. Fumiko and the others seem happy to do most of the cleaning. With DJ joking around and Melissa and her friends whining, the Canadian group doesn’t get much done.

We also spend more time with our host families. The Setos take me to one of Kenji’s soccer games. I actually have fun joining Fumiko in cheering and clapping. More people come out to watch than they do at our high school games. The cheers are also more polite—no boos or negative comments.

On the last day we visit Ise Shrine, an hour outside of Suzuka. The shrine is one of Japan’s most famous, built in honor of the sun goddess. It’s been in the same spot for almost two thousand years. We follow the path through a sacred forest that people have walked for centuries. When we get to the shrine, Fumiko and her family stop and say a prayer. Fumiko tells me that the shrine is rebuilt every twenty years.

“My parents helped pull the logs to the building site the last time,\u201D Fumiko says. “Next time Kenji and I will help.\u201D.

“Don’t they use trucks?\u201D I ask.

“No,\u201D she explains. “Many people help float the logs down the river; then they use ropes to pull them up the path. It’s been done that way for over a thousand years.\u201D.

“Wow,\u201D I say. It’s hard to imagine being part of something that old.

On my last night in Japan, Fumiko and I stand across the street from their house, looking out over the rice paddy. The plants have grown since I arrived. I feel like I know a lot more about Japan now but have still just touched the surface.

There’s a sound from the house. We turn to see Kenji walking toward us.

“This is for you,\u201D he says carefully as he hands me a piece of paper.

“Thanks,\u201D I say, my curiosity rising.

Kenji points to the logo on his soccer jersey.

“I asked my teachers,\u201D he says.

I unfold the paper and read the neatly printed words, imagining the time it must have taken Kenji to get the English right.

An old Japanese story tells that long ago a monster was going to eat the sun. The rulers of heaven created the crow. The crow flew into the monster’s mouth and choked it. Now the crow lives in the sun. It has three legs. One leg for dawn, one leg for noon and one leg for dusk. Another old story says that long ago the first emperor of Japan was traveling through the mountains and became lost. The sun goddess sent the crow with three legs to help him find the way home.

I think about the crows in Ueno Park. They helped me find my way in more ways than one. I wonder if one of them had three legs.

“This is interesting,\u201D I tell Kenji. He looks relieved. “So now the three-legged crow helps the Japanese soccer team?\u201D I add.

It takes him a second to process what I’ve said. Then he nods and laughs. In the rice field, the frogs begin croaking.

“I still haven’t seen a frog,\u201D I say.

“There!\u201D Kenji says, pointing down at the water near our feet.

We lean forward, and this time I see it—a small green frog. It’s visible for a second and then it disappears under the water.

“The Japanese word for frog, kaeru, sounds like the Japanese word for return home,\u201D Fumiko points out. “So the frog is a symbol for a safe return home.\u201D.

Home. The three of us are quiet as we look out over the rice field. I think about the past three weeks. I can’t remember what I expected, but I’ve learned that Japan is a place of old and new, side by side. A place where being part of a group is a good thing. And I’ve learned about myself.

I’m even looking forward to going home now, I realize. I’m looking forward to showing Fumiko around Vancouver when her group comes to Canada next month. Too bad Kenji isn’t coming too.

“Let’s not say good-bye,\u201D Fumiko says as if reading my thoughts. “Let’s say matta ne. It means, See you again.\u201D.

Matta ne, I promise silently. As we walk back to the house I realize I may still be a gaijin, but I no longer feel like a total outsider. And, I still have time for one last hot, relaxing, Japanese bath.