Chapter Eleven.

The first room of the museum is filled with old stone statues. They remind me of the statue with the bib in Seki-cho. Everyone from our group crowds around the statues. I guess we all had the same idea as DJ. Now I’ll have to look at more things. I don’t want to report to Mr. Crawford with the same thing as everyone else. I also don’t want to leave the museum at the same time as the others.

I cut through the statue room and then through a room filled with samurai swords. The walls of the next room are hung with painted screens and scrolls—all behind glass. I take my time walking through this one. Colorful paintings of birds, trees and women wearing kimonos are all done using simple lines. They are kind of like manga, but with a different subject and style.

“You could do stuff like that,” says a voice beside me.

I turn, startled. It’s Zach.

“I looked at your sketchbook,” he says. “You’re pretty good.”

“Thanks,” I say warily. I search his face to see if he is making fun of me.

“Zach! What are you talking to her for?” Melissa’s voice pierces the quiet. She stomps up and grabs Zach’s arm. “Come on, we’ve seen more than two things. I want to get out of this boring hole.”

Zach lets her drag him away, but he looks back at the museum cases as if he’d rather see more.

I continue making my way through the museum, stopping to look at things here and there. Many of the paintings, kimonos and tea bowls are hundreds of years old. Some of the statues and pottery are even a thousand years old. Pretty amazing.

When I leave the building, there is no one from my group in sight. I let out a deep satisfied sigh. Finally I am by myself.

Now that I’ve seen all the old art, I’d really like to see some new art. I wish I could visit a manga studio or see what kind of manga is for sale here. Maybe if I get out of the park I can find a store.

I take the path back toward the subway. The air is warm and slightly muggy. I look around as I walk, enjoying my freedom. With the Melly Mob out of the way, I can relax.

The area around the subway is crowded with small stores and restaurants, though there are no tall flashy buildings like we saw on the way to our hotel. I walk through the throng of people, pretending I know where I’m going. Occasionally my red hair catches someone’s attention and their eyes flick my way. But there are no rude stares.

There are stores selling stuff you might see anywhere—clothing, kitchenware, knickknacks. Eventually I come to a convenience store. Through the window I see a long shelf of magazines, books and manga. A recorded female voice greets me as I walk through the door.

I pass shelves of intriguing-looking candy as I make my way to the books. The manga are piled on a lower shelf, beneath the magazines. The artwork on the covers immediately draws me in. There is boys’ manga, girls’ manga, kids’ manga, adult manga. There’s even X-rated manga sealed in plastic wrap. There are boys playing basketball, samurai warriors in sword fights and lovers about to kiss. There are ultramodern city settings and ancient Japanese village settings….

I flip through book after book. I am fascinated with the images. Though for the most part, I can’t figure out what is happening.

After a while I pick out a couple of manga that I hope Fumiko and Kenji will like. I choose one for myself that has a style I want to study. Then I buy a bag of tiny moon-shaped crackers and some candy that has manga-style pictures of animals on the package. As I leave the store, the recorded voice thanks me.

Outside on the street, I start heading back toward the park. Or at least, that’s what I think I’m doing. After a few blocks of walking, I stop and look around. Nothing looks familiar. The store beside me has a large red sign with black Japanese writing. Did I pass that sign before? I’m not sure. I walk a little farther. There’s no sign of the park. A small tickle of panic stirs in the back of my chest.

I scan the faces of the people passing by. Do any of them speak English?

“Excuse me.” I approach a middle-aged woman with a kind face. “Can you tell me the way to…”.

She shakes her head and walks away before I can finish.

I look around again. Maybe someone younger would be more likely to speak English. I catch a young man’s eye and step forward.

“Excuse me,” I try again.

“Sorry,” the man says. He looks a bit embarrassed. “My English not good.” He starts to move away.

“Wait!” I call, grabbing hold of his arm.

He looks alarmed.

“Sorry.” I let go quickly. I widen my eyes and attempt to give him a lost-puppy look. I hope my growing panic does not add a crazed tinge. I try to think of the simplest way to form my question.

“Can you tell me where Ueno Park is?” I ask.

He starts to shake his head.

“Ueno Park?” I ask again.

I can almost see the lightbulb turn on above his head.

“Ah, Ueno Park,” he repeats, smiling.

He points using all his fingers, not just one. “Ueno Park that way,” he says.

It’s the opposite direction from the one I’ve been walking.

“Thank you! Arigato gozaimsu!” I tell him, not minding the looks my raised voice draws.

Relieved, I retrace my steps. It must be getting close to the time we’re supposed to meet.

Finally I reach a park entrance. But it isn’t the same one that I left earlier. A sign says Ueno Park, though. At least I know I’m in the right place. How hard can it be to find the museum?

I follow the path into the park. I watch for the stands where we bought food, the trees where we saw the crows or anything that looks familiar. I’d even be happy to see someone from my group.

“Gaijin,” I hear a little girl say to her mom as they walk by. The mother shushes the girl and hurries her along.

Gaijin. Foreigner. Outsider.

I stop in the middle of the sidewalk while people walk around me. Here I am, surrounded by people, and I feel more alone than I’ve ever felt before.

An older Japanese man approaches me and says something in Japanese. I can’t tell if he’s asking if I need help or if he’s mad at me for blocking the sidewalk. I give him an apologetic shrug, turn and walk again.

There’s got to be a sign with some directions around here somewhere. As I walk under the green trees, I hear crows call. The sidewalk leads to a hill covered with trees and then it forks to the left. There is a narrow stone path going up the hill. I leave the sidewalk and take the path. Maybe I’ll be able to see the museum from the top of the hill.

As I climb, it’s cooler under the trees. At first I hear the chirps of small birds, but then they are drowned by loud caws. The crows sound angry.

Someone screams.

I run along the path and stop at the top of the hill. Forgetting about the museum, I scan the steps going down the other side of the hill. I can hardly believe what I see.

A few feet in front of me, Melissa and Zach duck their heads as two large crows dive-bomb them from the trees. One swoops within inches of Melissa’s head. She swings her purse at it.

“Get away you stupid bird!” she screams.

At the sight of Zach and Melissa, relief bubbles through me. I quickly push it aside. Me, happy to see them? Not likely.

A second crow dives at Zach. He pulls up the collar of his T-shirt like a turtle trying to pull its head inside its shell.

They both look hilarious. I burst out laughing. That’s when Melissa catches sight of me.

“You shut up!” she screeches, a look of pure hate on her face. Then she bursts into tears and runs down the stairs.