Chapter Thirteen.

“Hey, so if you’re not going to kill each other…\u201D Zach looks at his watch. “We should find our way back to the museum.\u201D.

“Ah, about that…,\u201D I say as Melissa and I get to our feet. “I don’t exactly know the way, either.\u201D.

“You mean you’re lost too?\u201D Melissa whines. For a second, I think she’s going to cry again. But then she laughs.

“Good,\u201D she says. “Because I really hated having to ask you for help.\u201D.

“Me too.\u201D I grin at her like we’re sharing a joke. It’s weird. Nothing has been resolved. But something has changed. Like the way the air smells after a storm.

Zach looks at us blankly, and then he throws up his hands.

“I give up. If you two want to stay lost, fine. But I’m going to go look for a sign or something.\u201D.

He starts striding away from us. Melissa and I hurry to catch up.

“Look, there’s a sign.\u201D Zach points to a spot where several pathways join.

It takes awhile to figure out the sign, but finally we agree on which way to go. By the time we make it back to the museum, everyone is waiting for us.

“What were you doing with her?\u201D one of Melissa’s friends hisses.

“Learning Japanese,\u201D Melissa says. “What do you think?\u201D.

I smile. Melissa and I may never be friends again, but maybe she isn’t so bad.

In my hotel bed that night, I have a chance to think. Maybe we all have different ways of protecting ourselves. Melissa has her makeup and her attitude. DJ has his stupid humor, Fumiko has her cute things. I told myself I didn’t care when Melissa and I stopped being friends. Told myself I didn’t need anyone. Lying to yourself can be a way of protecting too.

The rest of the Tokyo trip goes too quickly: shopping on Omotesando and Harajuku streets where my unique fashion sense fits right in, playing games at Sega World. I even surprise myself and everyone else by challenging DJ to a game (which I win). We get to try karoke in our own private room on the last night.

When we board the train back to Suzuka there is a different feeling in the group. It’s like we are an actual group, not just a bunch of people who don’t like each other. I’m not saying I suddenly like everyone, but something has changed.

“Hey, Red!\u201D DJ says, ruffling my hair.

“Hey, loser!\u201D I say back, reaching out to flick the top of his head.

“Wait till next time, Red,\u201D he says.

“Yeah, right!\u201D I laugh back. “You’re a sucker for punishment.\u201D.

As the train leaves Tokyo, I settle into my seat and take out my sketchbook. I stare at the unfinished manga girl. Something feels even less right about her now…Maybe she needs a sidekick or some kind of sword- wielding backup…I’m still trying to decide how to fix her when a new idea hits me. With a feeling of excitement, I flip to a fresh page and begin to draw.

About four hours later, we are back in Suzuka. Fumiko and her father meet me at the station. I’m glad to see them. In the van on the way to the Setos’ house, I give Fumiko the manga book I bought for her and the drawing I did for her on the train. It’s a manga-style version of Fumiko. She is standing between a Japanese woman in a kimono and a North American man in a business suit. They both look at Fumiko with expressions of sudden understanding on their faces. In a thought bubble above the woman’s head is the Japanese word hai. In a bubble above the man’s head is the English word yes. Underneath the drawing I’ve written, Fumiko Seto, #1 translator.

“You drew me?\u201D Fumiko asks, sounding amazed and pleased. “It is so good!\u201D.

After supper with the Setos, I give Kenji the book I picked out for him and another drawing I did on the train. This one is a manga version of Kenji playing soccer and scoring a goal. On the bottom of the drawing are the words, Kenji Seto, soccer hero.

I watch Kenji’s face as he looks over the drawing, and I feel uncertain. Maybe I overdid it. I can see his lips mouth the words, “soccer hero.\u201D He probably thinks it’s totally stupid.

But then Kenji looks up, grinning. It’s the first real smile he’s given me.

“Thank you,\u201D he says, his face red. He looks away and starts to leave, and then he turns back and gives me another smile.