Chapter Four.

“Tell me again why you’re doing this?” Hannah asks.

I upend my board and grab it by the trucks. We climb the front stairs of my house. “’Cause. It’ll be fun.” I jiggle my key in the old brass lock. The door swings open, and I step into the entryway.

Hannah doesn’t follow. She stays on the doorstep, arms folded. “Owen.”

Only Hannah has that way of saying my name. “Flash mobs are fun. Parasailing is fun. But writing a relationship blog? This doesn’t sound like you. What’s going on?”

Crap. She’s not buying it. She’ll laugh if I tell her the real reason behind the Oracle. Especially after what she witnessed today.

I shrug. “I want to see how many people I can get to read it.” I motion for her to come in. She stands in the doorway, stubbornly.

I sigh and push her out of the way so I can close the door. Hannah’s not someone most people can push out of the way. But I can. We’ve been friends since our mothers met at baby music class thirteen years ago. I’ve seen Hannah barf all down her best dress. She’s seen me pee my pants. Twice.

Hannah furrows her dark brows. “You want to see how many people read it?”

she repeats. “Really? Owen, when was the last time you wrote more than ten words in a row? What’s with the sudden urge to host an entire”—she looks for the right word—“gossip blog for our school?”

I put my arm around her shoulders. “I don’t plan to do it all alone,” I say. “You’re going to help me.”

“I’m going to help you?” She looks at me like I’m speaking Finnish. “I haven’t agreed to anything.”

“Ah, but you’re brilliant, Hannah,” I say, laying it on thick. “Your ideas are way better than mine. Your research skills are tops. Plus, you’re funny.”

Never mind that I’m too lazy to make the blog happen by myself. I need her help to get it up and running.

I head for the kitchen. I don’t want to appear desperate. I’ll lose ground if she thinks it matters too much.

She follows me into the kitchen, her arms still crossed. I take two packages of cookies out of the cupboard and hand one to her. She shakes her head and takes an apple from the fruit bowl instead.

“Are you going to tell me what this is really all about?” she says, polishing her apple on her jeans.

I sigh. Hannah can’t be dodged. She knows me way too well. I go straight to the heart of it. “Kamryn’s in love with my brother.”

“So?”

“Well, Kyle’s a jerk. You know that.”

“I do know that,” says Hannah. “But I don’t see what a blog has to do with it.” She takes a bite of apple.

“I want to use it to steer her away from him.”

“How’s that going to work?” she asks.

I shrug. “Post misleading love advice and get Kamryn to read it.”

Hannah regards me suspiciously. “What’s it to you who Kamryn likes?”

Ah. This is where it gets tricky. I don’t want to tell my best friend that I’m crushing hard on the most popular girl in our grade. I’m afraid she’ll tell me I don’t stand a chance with Kamryn. Or worse, she’ll laugh. Hannah’s not one to keep her opinions to herself.

I shrug again. “It’s more about not letting Kyle have the satisfaction of yet another girl wasting her love on him.”

Hannah peels the sticker off the apple and flattens it on the counter. “You should let Kyle have her,” she says. “They’d be perfect for each other.”

“What do you mean?”

Hannah shrugs.

“What?” I ask again.

But she doesn’t say anything else.

I say, “I think my idea could work. Plus it would be fun to get the school hooked on a relationship blog.”

“But it’s bogus!” Hannah protests.

I shake my head. “Only the Kamryn- Kyle posts,” I say. “The rest of it can be legit. Real advice.”

Hannah sighs. “What if you put all that energy into skating instead, Owen? Or helping me organize the Free the Children Gala?”

“Come on,” I say. “How much fun would it be to mess with a thousand people’s heads like this?”

Her eyes get a faraway look.

Good. She’s thinking about it.

When she looks back at me, I raise an eyebrow. I move in for the kill. Playing on her do-gooder side. “Think of all the lives you’d be touching,” I say. “You could really help people…find love and all that.”

She tilts her head. “It would be kind of fun to see the response it gets.”

“So you’re in?”

“I’m not saying I’ll write anything.”

“So you’re in?” I repeat, giving her leg a little nudge with my foot.

“You could get in big trouble if this ever gets out, Owen.”

“It won’t. I’ll make sure of it.”

Hannah looks up at the ceiling and releases a long, slow breath. When she looks back at me, there’s a gleam in her eye.

“I’m in.”