Chapter Nine.

“Keep reading,” Hannah says.

I read a dozen questions out loud. When I get to the last one, my heart skips a beat. Skips about eleven beats, actually. Maybe twelve.

It’s signed Heart Huntress.

I take in a long breath. “Whoooee,” I say. “Here we go.”

“What?”

“Kamryn has finally written in.”

Instantly, Hannah appears behind me. She reads aloud over my shoulder. “Dear Oracle. The guy I want is older than me by a couple of grades, but I know we’d be perfect together. He’s already noticed me, and I think he likes what he sees. Here’s my question. I’m going to see him again at the dance this week, and I want that to be the night I capture his heart. I need your advice, from how to make my grand entrance until the moment I nail that first kiss.”

“Huh,” I say. “She didn’t understand that message we wrote as Kyle. Or she didn’t realize it was directed at her.”

“I’m not surprised,” Hannah says.

“What do you mean?”

“Honestly, Owen,” Hannah says. She sounds exasperated. “Kamryn thinks she’s above it all. If everyone else thinks she’s perfect, why wouldn’t she? She has no reason to imagine that she can’t get exactly what she wants.

It would never occur to her that the post was written by Kyle.”

“It wasn’t,” I point out.

Hannah groans. “You know what I mean!”

I grin and open my Gmail. “Anyway, we need to redirect her. Tell her to do all the wrong things so she turns Kyle off.”

“Heavy perfume,” Hannah offers. “Lots of makeup. Thick, heavy lipstick, especially.”

I recoil in mock horror. “Gross!”

“Well?” Hannah asks. “You want ways to turn guys off, don’t you?”

I check for Kamryn’s message that contains the birthdate of the guy in question. Sure enough, she’s copied the same message but added Birthday October 30th.

“October thirtieth,” I say. “That’s Kyle.”

“Ooh, he’s a Scorpio,” says Hannah. “Sexiest sign in the zodiac.” Her voice is teasing.

“You can’t be serious.” I can’t even think about it. Kyle? Sexy? The guy gets those silverfish bugs in his toothbrush because it’s so dirty.

“But Scorpios can be really mean,” she adds.

“That’s more like it.”

“I don’t know why you want to mess with karma on this one.” Hannah sighs. “Kyle’s a perfect fit for Kamryn. Mean deserves mean.”

I roll my eyes. “Oh my god,” I say. “She’s not that bad. You’ve got some weird vendetta against Kamryn.”

“Um, excuse me?” Hannah says. “You were the one who told me how she shot Matteo down in flames during your tutorial.”

I shrug. “Maybe she was having a bad day.”

“Oh right. That day, and the time at 7-Eleven? Come on, Owen. I know what she’s like.”

“Why do you always have to come down so hard on her?” I ask.

“Why are you so eager to excuse her crappy behavior?” Hannah shoots back. “Wait, no, I know. Because you’re in love.” She holds both hands over her heart and flutters her eyelashes.

Normally, I’d laugh off her teasing. But sudden hot anger spills into my throat. I’m mad that she thinks I’m an idiot for liking Kamryn.

But I’m also mad at myself, because a little part of me knows she’s right.

I say the first thing I can think of that will hurt. “You’re right, Hannah. I am in love with Kamryn.”

Hannah goes very still.

I drive the knife in a little deeper. “And that makes you crazy, doesn’t it? Maybe you’re jealous.”

She flinches. Immediately, I regret my words. I open my mouth, searching for a way to take them back.

“Hannah,” I say.

But it’s too late. I watch, helpless, as she gathers her laptop and bag.

“Hannah, listen.”

The handle makes a soft click as the door closes behind her.

I stare at the screen for a long time after she’s gone. What did I say all that for? I’ve embarrassed Hannah and made her feel terrible.

Holy. Who’s the mean one now?

A new comment drops in as I’m sitting there. It jolts me out of my trance.

I’m on my own now. Guess I’d better get going.

I ignore the new question and start with Kamryn’s instead. A few minutes ago, I was excited. Finally! My long- awaited chance to steer Kamryn away from Kyle!

But my fingers feel frozen as I type my reply.

Dear Huntress. As I see it, your would-be is already in love with another young woman. But the stars show me that the universe is unfolding as it should.

Those words seem familiar. They just kind of typed themselves out onto the page. I wonder where I’ve heard those before? Maybe in a poem.

I shrug and continue.

While you may believe deeply in your wish to be united with this guy, my observations show me a more powerful match in a young man closer to your age. The clouds obscure my sight from complete clarity, but I sense that this individual is—.

Is what? In grade eight? Wears jeans and zombie T-shirts? That’s a bit too clear.

I think about where Kamryn and I cross paths. The only place I can think of where we’ve actually exchanged words and glances—besides outside the convenience store—is in math help.

I go back to my reply. I sense that this individual is logical in nature. I see you meeting him outside class time, perhaps in an extracurricular session. He is helping you with something. There is some numeric energy there, but I can’t quite pinpoint it.

I wonder if this is too tea-leafy. Or whether the numeric bit is too obvious. But what do I have to lose?

Try exploring that avenue. Good luck.

I take a deep breath and hit Publish.

I turn my attention to the list of waiting questions. Methodically, I work my way through them, check traits against zodiac signs and design my advice to suit. I don’t rush any of them. I even throw in a bit of my own advice when I think it’ll be helpful.

In between questions, I think about my response to Kamryn. I wonder if it’s going to work.

I sigh. Whatever. It’s out there now. Time will tell where it leads.

I should be excited at nailing that long-awaited interaction with her. Or nervous, at least.

But all I can think of are my last words to Hannah. And the look on her face as I said them.