Chapter Eleven.

On Tuesday afternoon, Kamryn and.

I head to my place. Today we’ll finish off our research on Mayan religious systems and start our Museum Box online. I hope this will be less strained than yesterday’s in-class session. We talked so little, I think we managed to blow through nearly all of our research.

Awkward.

“This is nice,” Kamryn says as she steps into my house. Her eyes move around the room approvingly. “Your parents have great design sense.”

“My mom stages homes for realtors,” I say. “She can make a rodent hole look like the Waldorf Astoria.”

Kamryn’s eyes drift to the trophy on the bookcase. There’s only one on display at any time, even though there are more than twelve tucked away in various closets. Pretty soon we’ll need to build a shed to house all of Kyle’s achievements.

“Who’s the basketball star?”

“That’d be my brother.”

Her eyes cut to me. “I didn’t know you had a brother.”

I shrug. That would be because I intentionally didn’t tell you, I think.

“How old is he?”

“Sixteen.” I kick off my shoes and head down the hallway toward my bedroom. Kamryn follows. The door to Kyle’s room is closed.

“Where does he go to school?”

“LaMontagne. Senior campus.” For whatever reason, our school is split into two separate buildings—the middle grades and the senior high. It’s a relief not to have to share space with Kyle all day. I get enough of that every evening.

“What’s his name?”

I sigh. “Kyle.”

Here it comes.

“Kyle…Roberts?” The word comes out as a shriek.

“Same one.”

Kamryn’s hands fly up to cover her mouth. “Oh my god, I had no idea he was your brother!” She looks like a kid who’s just spotted Santa Claus filling her stocking with diamonds and PEZ.

I shrug. “Well. Owen Roberts. Kyle Roberts. You know.”

“Yeah, but, I…you don’t. I mean, you don’t look…like him at all, you know?”

“Thanks,” I say.

“No, I mean…” Kamryn flaps her hands. She looks around, as though Kyle might appear from behind a secret door. “Is he home?”

Why did I bother? What good did I think it would do to use the Oracle to try to force Kamryn to like me?

“No.”

“Oh.” She looks disappointed.

Thankfully, her questions dry up once we enter my room. While she drifts around looking at the sketches on my wall, I open up my laptop. I pop up a new tab and google Mayan religious customs.

“I didn’t know you were an artist,” Kamryn says, moving from one picture to the next. “These are really good.”

“Thanks,” I say. A little flicker of hope lights in my belly, and I turn my chair to face her.

“Does Kyle draw?”

I rotate back to the computer.

“Nope.”

“What does he do? Like, hobby- wise?”

What was I thinking, anyway? You can’t force someone to like you. Even I know that. Making Kamryn do this project with me seems pathetic now.

I glance at the clock in the corner of the screen. I’d rather be out at the skate park, blowing off steam. Like Kamryn said yesterday, let’s get this over with.

“Look, Kamryn,” I say. “I have to be somewhere at four. So we should get going.”

She looks disappointed. I guess she wanted to talk about Kyle some more. “Okay.” She unzips her backpack and slides out her ipad. “Have you got anything to eat?”

I’m embarrassed that I haven’t offered. Even rude guests deserve to be offered refreshments. “Of course,” I say. “I’ll go grab something.”

I push back from my desk and hurry to the kitchen. Now that I think about it, I’m starving.

I take bread and cheese out of the fridge and turn the oven on to broil. I flip on the kitchen sound system. The room fills with Calm Radio piano solos. My mom’s favorite.

I change it to skate punk.

I sigh. Now that Kamryn knows I’m Kyle’s brother, chances are she’s going to want to hang around with me more to be closer to him.

That should be a good thing, right? That we spend more time together? Except.

She’ll be doing it because of him, not because of me.

And Hannah’s right. She’s not very nice.

Even Kamryn was right. We have almost nothing in common.

Plus, Kamryn has zero sense of humor.

I swipe a knife out of the block and shave off thin slices of cheddar. I pile them on two slices of bread. I slide the tray into the oven and grab an apple. I polish it on my jeans, like I’ve seen Hannah do.

Hannah.

I’ve lost touch with one of my best friends while getting myself tangled up in a web of dishonesty with someone I’m not sure I want anymore.

Stupid.

I wash and slice the apple.

When I open the oven door a few minutes later, the cheese toast is bubbling. Perfect. I slide the pan out onto the stovetop to cool, and then I grab plates.

Then I remember.

I didn’t lock the screen on my computer before I left my room.

Oh crap.

My stomach plummets.

I throw the plates on the counter and pound down the hallway back to my room, my heart slamming.

I skid to a stop at my doorway. My eyes wheel around the room in panic. “Kamryn?”

She’s not here.

“Kamryn?” I yell.

No answer.

Her bag’s gone.

She left. The music must have been too loud for me to hear her leave.

Crap.

I bolt toward my computer and slide onto the chair. The wheels roll me sideways, smashing my knees against my bookcase.

I paw at the trackpad to get rid of the screensaver.

When the screen fills, I’m not looking at a website on Mayan religious customs. Not at all.

I’m looking at the Oracle.

She found it.

And she wrote about it. In a post. And her post is on the home page, which means she published it too.

The title screams at me. The Oracle is A LIE!

I skim the post.

There it is. Plain as day. Out there in the ether for everyone to see.

Listen up, people! This isn’t the Oracle writing to you. This is another student at LaMontagne. The Oracle is all made up.

I feel like puking.

I’ve just discovered that Owen Roberts writes the posts. “As I see it,” (ha ha), you have been telling your secrets to a grade-eight idiot loser… and he’s been making up answers to try and trick you!

I bite down on the irony. I wasn’t trying to trick anyone except Kamryn. For everyone else, I did my absolute best to advise them wisely. And now she’s calling me out as a cheat.

But how do I prove otherwise? I can’t argue with her.

There’s no fixing this.

This is going to be the end of my days at school.