Chapter Six.

The next day after school, I check the Oracle’s stats.

If I wasn’t sitting down already, I would have fallen on the floor. The site had two hundred and twenty-three hits and forty-eight comments.

My stomach does a flip-flop.

What?

My heart hammers. I should be happy, but instead I feel like I’ve been buried by an avalanche.

What have I started?

What am I going to do with forty-eight questions? How will I answer them all?

I run my hands through my hair, then click on the first one.

Dear Oracle. My best friend just broke up with her boyfriend. I’m really attracted to him and want to go out with him, But I don’t want my friend to be upset. What do I do? —LF.

I blink. Wow, that’s a tough one.

Maybe the next question will be easier to answer. I click on it.

Dear Oracle. Is it a good idea to kiss on the first date? My friends and I can’t agree. —To Kiss or Not to Kiss.

I don’t know. Is it a good idea?

Let’s have a look at number three.

Dear Oracle. I’m going out with a guy that I’m not interested in anymore.

How do I dump him gently? —Softhearted.

Ah, man. Who was I to think I could manage a gig like this?

I go through every question to see if any of them are easy to answer.

None are, except for the one asking about poisoning an ex’s new girlfriend with formaldehyde from the chem lab. I write a stern reply discouraging the idea. Before I hit Send I suggest itching powder in her gym shorts instead.

I drop my head into my hands. I’ve told everyone the Oracle can solve their trickiest relationship issues. And, other than telling people not to kill each other, I don’t have a clue where to start.

The doorbell rings, making me jump.

“Forty-eight questions!” Hannah says when I open the door. She’s obviously checked the stats too.

“I know,” I groan. “I have no idea how to answer them either.”

Hannah grins. “I do.”

“What? How?”

“Horoscopes.”

“Horoscopes?”

She nods. “Astrology. You ask people to send in the birthdate of the person they’re asking about. It’s the best tool we have to tailor the Oracle’s advice to that person.”

“I’m not following you.”

Hannah steps inside and closes the door.

“You’re a Sagittarius, right?” she asks.

“I don’t know. Am I?”

“Yes, you are. Your birthday is December eighth.” She starts walking toward my bedroom.

I follow her. “Okay. So what?”

“Well, according to the ancient art of astrology, there are certain things a person can do if he or she wants to woo someone of a particular sign.”

“Keep talking.”

“Well, let’s use you as an example,” she says, settling herself on my bed. “Sagittarians are honest, and they have a great sense of humor. So good relationship advice for someone who’s in love with a Sagittarius is to show that you can be a lot of fun. Or that you like the outdoors. Or horses.”

I look at Hannah. “How’d you get so wise on astrology all of a sudden?”

Hannah pulls out a folded sheet of paper and waves it at me. “Google.” She opens the sheet and runs her finger down a list, reading. “More on Sagittarius. Optimistic. Adventurous. You like to travel. You think about the future. You don’t like to be tied down.”

I laugh and sit down. “No comment. What’s your sign?”

“I’m a Leo,” she says.

“What’s that mean?”

She raises an eyebrow. “Flatter me.”

“Anything else?”

“That’s all you need to know for Leos,” says Hannah.

“Okay, so…you’re brilliant,” I say.

“Tell me something I don’t know.”

“You have lovely, uh…hair?”

“Getting warmer.” She laughs. I love making Hannah laugh. Her laugh makes me feel good.

“You have a laugh that I could listen to all day?” I say.

Hannah stops laughing. She blinks, twice, then looks down.

The air in the room feels different all of a sudden. The tops of my ears grow hot.

I hear Hannah take in a little breath. Then she nods toward the laptop. “We should get started. We need to get the word out so people can write in with actual birthdates.”

“Right.” I nod. “But wait. How are people supposed to know other people’s birthdates? You can’t go up to a girl or guy you like and ask them what their birthday is. That’s too obvious. They’d know you were writing a question for the Oracle.”

Hannah leans over my shoulder. She smells good. Like vanilla. And fruit.

With a couple of clicks, she brings up a familiar blue page.

“Facebook, silly.”

The girl is brilliant. Of course! Everyone puts their birthday on their page.

“Awesome! You are so smart!”

She shrugs and studies her nails modestly. “I try.”

I open up a new post and start typing.

Dear Readers. I am truly delighted that so many of you have written in with your questions. As I see it, to receive the most accurate advice possible, please include the birthdate of the individual in question.

“That’s going to cause problems,” Hannah says, looking over my shoulder.

“I thought you said that was the best way to do it?” I say. “If we have the people’s birthdates, we can tailor the advice better, right?”

“But if they write the birthdate right into their comment,” Hannah says, “everyone who reads it can figure out who they’re talking about.”

“Ohhh,” I say. “Hadn’t thought of that. Well. What if they post the question in the comments, and then send it to us again in an email? With the birthdate included?”

Hannah’s eyes brighten. “Email’s private. That would totally work.”

I add, Of course, you won’t want to put the birthdate in your comment. Unless you want your secret longings to become public! Post your comment, then send it to me again in an email at oracle98@gmail.com. Be sure to include your would-be’s birthdate.

“Good?” I ask.

“Excellent,” she answers.

I click Publish.

“Now for today’s questions,” Hannah says.

I roll my eyes. “Ugh. There’s forty- eight!” I say.

Hannah glances back at the screen. “Fifty-six, actually. Look.”

I don’t look. “That’s way too many to answer,” I moan.

“Who says we have to answer all of them?” Hannah asks. “It’s not like people are paying for this. They can wait their turn. Actually, a wait might stoke the fires.” She gives me a half smile. “I’m not so sure I can handle this fire getting stoked any higher,” I say.

That came out weird. I feel my ears start to burn again. Hannah’s face goes pink.

Her next words save me from putting my foot any farther into my mouth. “Why don’t we just pick the five best and answer those?”

I stare at her. The five best. It’s perfect.

I want to hug her. But I don’t.

I nod. “Okay. Five. We can do five.

Where do we start?”