Chapter Five.

I lean back in my chair. “What number are we up to?”

It’s Sunday afternoon. Hannah’s on my bed with her laptop open. She studies the sheet where we keep track of user names and passwords. The “phantom people” who write to the Oracle for advice.

“Seventeen. Both questions and answers.” She consults the sheet. “We’ve got the messy breakup, the cheating girlfriend, the jealous lover, the gay who’s afraid to come out, the hopeless romantic, the fetishist—”.

“I liked that one. Sneaker Sniffer.” I stretch. “Let’s do one about Kamryn and Kyle now.”

“Ugh.” Hannah rolls her eyes. “Fine.” She starts typing, setting up a new phantom email for the question writer. “Number eighteen,” she says. “I’ll call her QB.”

“Quintessential babe?”

Hannah stares. “You think Kamryn’s a babe?” Her laugh is short. “Holy, you’re just like everyone else.”

I realize my mistake. “Well, I myself don’t think she’s a babe,” I scramble. “I mean, not personally.”

Hannah looks back down at her laptop. “Whatever. QB stands for Queen Bee.”

She looks mad. I’m not sure what to say. Usually if Hannah’s mad about something, you hear about it.

But she doesn’t say anything else. I keep us moving along. “Okay, so. Our question for Kamryn could be, How do I get this really hot guy to notice me?”

Hannah starts typing.A few seconds later, she hits a button. “Sent,” she says.

I click Refresh on my laptop, and the question appears on my screen as though QB actually wrote in to ask the Oracle about it.

I grab my head and groan.

“What?” Hannah asks.

“Epic problem,” I say.

“What?” she asks again.

“I want to give her the wrong advice and steer her in the wrong direction,” I say. “But the Oracle isn’t supposed to give bad advice. It’s supposed to give good advice.”

“Oh,” Hannah says. “Riiiiiight.”

We sit for a few moments.

Then Hannah snaps her fingers. “Got it,” she says.

“What?”

“We write in as Kyle.”

I stare at her. “We write in as Kyle?” I can’t imagine my brother reading a website about relationships, let alone writing in to ask for advice. But Kamryn won’t know that.

“What would Kyle ask?” I say.

“Dear Oracle,” Hannah begins. She types as she talks.

“I’m in grade ten. There’s this grade- eight girl who’s driving me crazy. She has a crush on me, but the feeling isn’t mutual. She’s on the prowl and won’t let up. She’s even got plans to hunt me down at the spring dance.”

My jaw drops, and I swivel in my chair. “That’s so obvious!”

Hannah looks at me. “Owen. Do you want her to figure it out or what?”

“Right. Obvious it is.”

She finishes. “Oracle, I’m not interested in dating little kids. How do I tell her to leave me alone?”

I can’t help it. I laugh. “That’s perfect! If Kamryn reads that question, she’ll totally think Kyle wrote it. She’ll get the message loud and clear.” I lean back and punch Hannah on the shoulder. “You’re a genius.”

“I know.” She shrugs and twirls a length of hair around a finger. “Your world would be dead and meaningless without me.”

I laugh again. “You realize, don’t you, that if people start reading this website, we can totally direct their behavior with questions and answers?”

Hannah nods. “Supreme power.”

“That’s pretty cool. To have this much control over people.”

“Controlling minds is pretty cool,” she agrees. “Except there’s one tiny problem.”

“What’s that?”

“How do we get people to read it?”

“You do the main floor. I’ll do upstairs.” I hand Hannah a fistful of blue business cards.

She heads down the corridor, slipping a card into every few lockers. The hallways are quiet except for the mad-science nerds and a few people in the drama club. Almost everyone has gone home or to the gym to watch the game.

Hannah and I stayed up late last night creating anonymous identities. Inventing questions and posting answers and having way too much fun.

As of today, the Oracle is open for business.

I take my bundle of cards upstairs. Between us, we have three hundred. It’s not enough for every locker at.

LaMontagne, but it’s a good start for getting the word out.

I glance down at the card. It shows a dark sky full of stars swirling around an image of an ancient temple. In gold are the words, Is love in the stars for you at LaMontagne? Ask the Oracle. The url is at the bottom.

It should get people’s attention.

I save the last card for Kamryn’s locker, at the far end of the east wing. If nothing else, I have to make sure she gets one. She’s the whole reason for the Oracle.

As I drop the card through a small opening at the top of the locker, it hits me that I should have written a personal message on it. An invitation, or maybe a hint about Kyle. Something to make sure she logs on and checks out the site. I duck my head to feel around at the bottom of the locker, but there’s no way I’m retrieving the card.

That was dumb.

I pull on the locker. Locked, of course. I bang my forehead against it in frustration.

Hannah rounds the corner. “This is going to be so great!” she says. She stops short when she sees me. “What on earth are you doing?”

I straighten guiltily. “Nothing.”

“Why were you smashing your head against…” Hannah pulls back and scans the row of lockers. “Kamryn’s locker?” she finishes. When she looks back at me, her eyes are suspicious. A locker slams in the next hallway.

“Oh, is this her locker?” I feign surprise. “That’s weird. I, uh, didn’t have enough cards to get to the end of this row. I was just thinking that maybe we didn’t print enough.”

I can tell she doesn’t believe me.

She opens her mouth to speak.

Mason rounds the corner, wearing those jumbo foam hands people wave at hockey games. He stops and points, cowboy-style, when he sees us. “Dudes,” he says. “What’re you doing up here? Game’s in the gym.”

Hannah looks at Mason, then at me.

“We were just headed there,” she says. “Let’s go.”