Chapter Twelve.

I don’t want to get out of bed the next day. How do I face a world that thinks my blog is a sham? That I’m a sham?

The thing is, it doesn’t feel like a sham at all. I was proud of the Oracle. I liked helping people. Or what I thought was helping people.

I heave my legs over the side of the bed and sit up. I rub my face.

Today is the first day of the rest of my life at LaMontagne. And is it ever going to look different from this point forward.

At school, I keep my head down and my feet moving. A lot of people stare at me. People in Kamryn’s posse whisper hissy comments to each other while glaring in my direction.

I want to talk to Hannah, but I’ve bungled that friendship beyond repair. She’s not coming back.

There is a lot of whispering. But no one talks to me.

No one, that is, except Mason.

He catches up with me on the way to Spanish. “Hey, man,” he says. “Don’t sweat it. It’ll pass. I love the Oracle. Everybody loves the Oracle.”

“You think?” I ask.

He nods. “For sure! It’s great reading.” He claps me on the shoulder, then drops his voice. “But I have to ask you, little man. What possessed you to set up a relationship blog?”

I smile at my nickname. Mason is four inches shorter than me.

“You really want to know?” I ask.

“I really want to know.”

I look around to make sure we’re not overheard. Not like I have anything to hide now. “Did you read the posts by Heart Huntress?”

Mason nods again.

“That was Kamryn Holt. I set up the blog as a way to kill her crush on my brother. Try to get her to go out with me instead.”

Mason looks thoughtful for a moment. That’s rare, so I appreciate it when it happens. He glances toward Kamryn and Dana, who are spitting evil looks at me.

He looks back at me. “D’it work?”

I shake my head. “Not a chance. Killed my crush on her though.”

He grins. “Probably worth it, then.” He looks back at Kamryn and lowers his voice. “I could’ve told you you’re wasting your time, man.”

He’s not the only one.

On our way to assembly on Friday, Jon and Ryan catch up to us in the hallway.

“Hey, man,” says Jon.

I look over. “Hey.”

Jon and I don’t hang out, but I’ve known him since grade school. He’s a good guy.

“So, uh, I was Rubber Duckie.”

I smile. “No way. Really?” Right away I want to know how his conversation went with the girl on his swim team. “How’d it go? Did you manage to get her alone, without all of her friends around?”

He grins. “Yeah. I asked Coach to tell her to help me roll up the lane ropes.” He laughs. “It was a great idea. We’re going to see a movie tonight. So thanks.”

I shrug. “For what it’s worth.”

He nods and bumps my shoulder. “Good luck.”

He and Ryan drift ahead, bobbing along with the mass of students making its way to the gym.

Good luck?

Suddenly I’m nervous. The Oracle isn’t going to come up in the assembly, is it?

I find a seat at the edge of the center row of bleachers. I’m used to the stares by now. I’m surprised, however, when a few people pat me on the shoulder as they make their way up toward the higher rows.

I spot Kamryn sitting in a different set of bleachers. She’s surrounded by a tight group of whispering girls. Her eyes are small and mean. I look away before they find me.

Ms. Parhar waits at the front of the gym until everyone has arrived.

When the shuffling subsides, she moves behind the podium and clears her throat. Her bracelets make ringing noises as she reaches for the mic.

“LaMontagne, thank you for your presence today,” she starts. She runs through major announcements, and then the grade reps make theirs. Sports meet information. Spring fair. Then the dance team wraps it up with an awesome performance. They’ve put some sort of freak hip-hop king inside the mascot’s costume today. The team does a great job, but Lucky the mascot steals the show. Jaws drop to see the pudgy panda popping and locking his way through Snoop Dogg. By the end of the performance, LaMontagne’s student body is on its feet, cheering and clapping. The cheers turn to wild whoops when Lucky takes his head off to reveal tiny grade-ten student Lo Ming—a total nobody. She’s panting, and her wet hair is stuck to her head. I imagine she’s beat after five minutes of breaking inside fifteen pounds of polyester.

“Thanks to the dance team for that performance,” says Ms. Parhar once the excitement has died down and everyone has found their seats again. “I’ve never seen our hundred-and-eight-year-old mascot move in quite such a way.” Laughter ripples through the crowd and people glance in Lo Ming’s direction. She bobs her head once in acknowledgment. One of the dance team pats her back.

She’s not going to be a nobody anymore.

That’s the funny thing. All it takes is one notable deed, and everlasting notoriety is yours.

Whether you want it or not.

“The final item on today’s agenda concerns an issue that has been brought to my attention by one of LaMontagne’s middle-school students,” says Ms. Parhar.

“It involves enough of the student body that the staff felt it was appropriate to address at an assembly.” As she speaks, the gym falls quiet. The usual foot-.

shuffling and whispering slows until it stops entirely.

I feel eyes on me. Dozens.

Maybe hundreds.

Is this about me?

I don’t dare look toward the principal. I lock my eyes on the head of the person in front of me. I wait for her skull to start smoking.

“A blog has been brought to our attention. It appears that this website is attempting to mislead others in the area of personal relationships.”

My stomach drops.

This is about the Oracle.