chapter one

I stare out the window as the airplane 
taxis down the runway. With my back 
to the other seats, I can almost forget I 
have to share my two weeks in Japan with 
Melissa Muller and the others. The Melly 
Mob, I call them. If you’ve ever seen a 
gang of crows mob some poor raven, you 
can figure out "why." 

Melissa and her friends flock together 
like crows. If they don’t like you or your
clothes or your hair color—pomegranate 
red, being my latest—they don’t exactly 
dive-bomb you. But they have a way of 
looking at you that says you rate about the 
same as bird crap.

A thrill leaps through me as we lift off. 
We rise into the clouds, and Vancouver 
disappears. I’m glad to see it go. Outside 
there is nothing but whiteness. It feels like 
I’m in a magic passageway between worlds. 
At the other end of all this whiteness is a 
different place?

I turn away from the window and 
glance around the inside of the plane. I 
don’t know the girl beside me other than 
her name, Maya Contina. She’s talking 
across the aisle to a friend. Ignoring me. 
A couple of rows back, Melissa is sitting 
beside her boyfriend, Zach Bellows. Their 
heads are bent together. Someone throws a 
scrunched-up piece of paper at them. Zach 
laughs and throws the paper back. Melissa 
pretends to be annoyed, but it’s obvious 
she likes the attention. She is wearing even 
more makeup than usual. I am wearing
a lot of black eyeliner myself but only 
because I want to look different. Melissa 
looks like she’s trying to be some kind of 
phony fashion model. All her clothes are 
name brand, and she keeps flipping her 
long blond hair off her shoulders!

Melissa’s eyes snap onto mine as if 
she’s sensed me. I give her a bored look. 
She looks away. For a second, I’d swear 
she almost squirmed. A bit of the old Mel 
showing through? I turn forward again. 
Nah. There is nothing left of the Mel that 
used to be my best "friend?"

The seat belt sign is off now, and I pull 
my backpack out from under the seat. I take 
out my MP3 player and my sketchbook, flip 
open the book and begin to "draw!"

With light pencil strokes, I sketch the 
shape of a body and face. I draw over the 
lines more heavily as I get them the way I 
want. I draw manga-style eyes—but not too 
large. I add two sections of hair that sweep 
off the girl’s face like raven "wings-"

As I lean over the sketchbook, my own 
hair falls like a red curtain around my
face. I am in my own world. But I can feel 
the others noticing me and pretending they 
don’t.

Maybe I’ll fit in better in Japan. At least 
I know about manga and anime—Japanese 
graphic novels and animation. I’ve been a 
fan since the first episode of Sailor Moon 
that I saw as a kid. I quickly discovered 
other stuff after that and went from tv 
shows to manga books. The character I’m 
drawing now is influenced by the darker 
manga I’ve been into lately.

Woosh! The sketchbook flies out of my 
hand.

“Let’s see what you’re working on, Red,” 
a boy’s voice says.

“Hey!” I twist around, yanking my earbuds 
loose. I come face to face with DJ, the 
most annoying guy in our school. Just my 
luck to be seated right in front of him.

“My name is Dana,” I tell him with a 
knife-edge glare.

I grab for the book, and DJ holds it out 
of my reach, laughing. I want to slap the 
taunting grin off his face.
“It speaks! It speaks!” he says. He’s 
lucky my hands can’t reach his throat.

“Give me the book,” I order under 
my breath. By now everyone is watching. 
Everyone except for Mr. Crawford and 
Ms. Delucci, our teachers. They are busy 
ignoring the morons they are supposed to 
be watching.

I make another lunge for the book, and 
DJ jerks it away again. Unfortunately for 
him, there’s not much space in an airplane 
seat. I grab a handful of his hair.

He gives a sort of squeal. It is part 
surprised pain and part laughter. Then he 
tosses the book. The next thing I know, my 
sketchbook is in the hands of Zach Bellows. 
He starts flipping through the pages.

I force myself not to scream, though I 
am bursting with anger. For a second, I 
catch Melissa’s eye and glare. If she has 
any memory of our friendship at all, she 
knows how much I hate people looking at 
my private drawings.

Mustering extreme willpower, I turn 
away and sit down. If I pretend I don’t
care about the book, they should lose 
interest. Unless they start making fun of 
the drawings. I feel a surge of panic.

“Here, pass this over,” a girl’s voice 
whispers from the aisle.

The next thing I know, Maya drops the 
sketchbook into my lap.

“What did you do that for?” DJerk 
complains.

I look past Maya to see Melissa making 
her way back to her own seat.

“The movie’s about to start,” she says, 
giving him a flirty smile. “It’ll be hard 
to watch with you guys throwing stuff 
around.”


chapter two

“We are beginning our descent,” the 
captain’s voice announces. “We will land 
at Nagoya airport in thirty minutes.”

Finally! This is it. We are closing in on a 
patchwork of small green and brown fields. 
It’s getting dark, so I can barely make out 
the colors. Alongside the fields are the gray 
shapes of buildings. 

Disappointment nudges through me. I
guess I expected the clouds to part and 
everything below to dazzle like jewels. But 
the view is dull and gray and no different 
from Vancouver.

It’s just the weather and the fading 
light, I tell myself. It’ll get better.

Inside the airport, we could be anywhere. 
There are just as many English signs as 
there are Japanese ones. I step onto a 
moving walkway as a recorded female 
voice says “please watch your step” in 
perfect English. The voice also says 
something in Japanese that must mean the 
same thing. We pass through customs and 
head to the baggage claim.

By now, I’m watching for a washroom. 
I see a sign with the English word toilet. 
On one door is a small blue man-shaped 
image. On the other door is a small, pink, 
woman image. I push open the pink door 
and step inside. I’m followed by a couple 
of other girls from our group. The washroom 
is clean and modern. I open the 
door to the first empty stall and freeze.

For a second, I wonder if I picked the 
wrong washroom. I’m staring at a men’s 
urinal, but it’s on the floor. It’s a Japanese-
style toilet, I realize. Now I feel like I’m in 
a different place.

“What the hell is that?” a familiar voice 
complains.

I look over my shoulder. Melissa is 
standing in front of a stall, one hand on 
her hip.

“You stand over it and squat,” I say. 
Then I step into my own stall as if I know 
exactly what I’m doing. 

The look on Melissa’s face is worth the 
price of this whole trip.

“Well, that’s it. I’m holding it,” I hear 
Melissa say. I am still laughing to myself 
as I reach the baggage claim area.

In the airport lobby, a Japanese man 
in a black suit introduces himself as Mr. 
Akimoto. He is our host teacher from 
Suzuka High School. He has a round face 
lit by a welcoming smile. His thick black 
hair fits him like a tight hat.

We follow Mr. Akimoto out of the
airport, pulling our suitcases behind us. I 
look around, hungry for my first glimpse 
of Japan. But it’s dark out now. I can’t see 
much past the concrete of the airport. 
It’s warm, though, and more humid than 
spring in Vancouver. I take a deep breath 
of Japanese air.

“Aren’t we getting taxis?” Melissa asks. 

As he leads us toward a covered walkway 
Mr. Akimoto explains that the airport is 
built on an artificial island. We have to 
take a ferry across Ise Bay to get to Suzuka. 
I squint, trying to make out the lights on 
the other side of the dark bay. All I can 
see are a few fuzzy spots that aren’t quite 
as black.

A tall, sleek, white boat pulls in to the 
dock, and we walk on. The interior of 
the ferry is super modern—bright lights, 
airplane-style seats, tvs hanging from 
the ceiling. I feel a sense of unreality as 
I sink into my comfortable chair. Fatigue 
hits me. It’s about three in the morning 
Canada-time, I realize. I have been awake 
for nineteen hours.

We get off the ferry at a place called Tsu. I 
notice a few short palm trees, which I wasn’t 
expecting. Several teenage boys are skateboarding 
in the parking lot. We look over at 
them with interest. Mr. Akimoto guides us 
to a waiting bus. 

We board through the back door. As we 
struggle to find space for all of our suitcases, 
I look out at the skateboarders. Dressed in 
loose T-shirts and slouchy pants, they could 
be kids anywhere. One boy with spiky black 
hair reminds me of a manga character—the 
cocky, rebellious hero type. I feel a tingle of 
anticipation. What will my host family be 
like? Will I meet someone like that manga 
boy?

The bus drives on the left side of the 
road, which is a bit unnerving. The streets 
seem darker than back home. There are large 
signs everywhere with Japanese writing. No 
English now. The bus pulls up in front of 
a train station, and we file out of the front 
door. Mr. Akimoto pays for us as we leave.

“Everything here is backward,” Melissa 
complains.

“Yeah,” Zach agrees with a laugh.

My hackles rise. Was Melissa always this 
anal?

“Maybe it’s you that’s backward,” I say. 
Melissa and several of the others turn and 
stare at me. Then their eyes glaze over as if 
I’m not here.

“Did you hear something?” Melissa says to 
the girl beside her.

The girl shrugs. “No, just a weird buzzing 
sound. Street noise, I guess.”

They turn their backs on me—as if I care.

On the train, I notice an ad with a manga-
style illustration of a woman’s face. Cool. 
Mr. Akimoto tells us that we will be in 
Suzuka in twenty minutes. We will meet 
our host families at the station. I clutch my 
backpack tightly, feeling my stomach begin 
to flutter. I’m not sure if I’m nervous or just 
excited. Soon I will be rid of Melissa and 
the others—at least for a while.

chapter three

“Welcome to Japan. My name is Fumiko 
Seto.”

My host “sister” steps forward. She has 
a shy smile and a heart-shaped face. Her 
black hair is cut in a fashionable shoulder-
length style. She is wearing her school 
uniform. The other Japanese kids are 
also wearing uniforms. The boys’ black 
pants and collarless jackets look military. 
The girls’ plaid skirts, black blazers and
white blouses look like Canadian private 
school uniforms. Suzuka High is a public 
school, though. Compared to the Japanese 
kids we look pretty grubby and travel 
worn. Except for Melissa, who must have 
touched up her makeup and hair.

“This is my mother and father,” Fumiko 
tells me, gesturing toward the man and 
woman standing beside her. Her English 
is good, which is a relief.

“Hi,” I say, forgetting that I’d planned to 
say konbanwa, Japanese for good evening.

My host mom and dad smile and bow. 
Then they take turns shaking my hand. I 
can tell that they don’t understand much 
English. But they seem friendly and kind. 
Mr. Seto is not much taller than me, and 
his hair is threaded with gray. Mrs. Seto 
is shorter than me. Her face is an older 
version of Fumiko’s. Mr. Seto picks up my 
suitcase and says something in Japanese. 
I figure it means follow me, please.

“I am sorry my older brother, Kenji, 
could not come to the train station,” 
Fumiko says as we follow her dad.

“That’s okay,” I say. I’m curious and a 
bit nervous about this older brother. 

As we reach the doors I look back at 
the rest of the kids from my school. They 
have all split off with their host families. 
A stab of panic shoots through me, but I 
shove it aside. I’m glad to be getting away 
from them.

“Sayonora, suckers!” I say under my 
breath.

Ahead of me Melissa moves through 
the doors. She glances over her shoulder. 
For a second, her eyes look like a scared 
little kid’s. Then she notices me and 
glares.

The Setos usher me out to a boxy van 
with Honda Stepwagon Spada written in 
English on the side.

“My father works for Honda,” Fumiko 
says, sounding proud.

Mr. Seto gestures for me to get into 
the front of the car. There is an awkward 
moment when I try to climb into the 
driver’s seat. I forgot that driving on the 
opposite side of the road means driving
on the opposite side of the car. Eventually 
I make it into the passenger seat. I lean 
back, ready for sleep, but excitement 
and nerves keep my eyes open. Driving 
through shadowy unfamiliar streets with 
three strangers, I suddenly feel very far 
away from home.

We pull up to the Setos’ house, which 
is crowded between other houses on one 
side of a narrow road. They all look pretty 
much like North American houses but not 
so large. Many of the roofs have curving 
eaves. Across the street is a black empty 
area, with more houses beyond that. As I 
climb out of the car, I hear odd creaking 
sounds coming from the blackness. I can’t 
see what is out there.

Inside the Setos’ house is a small 
entrance that is lower than the rest of the 
house. I take off my shoes, which I know 
you are supposed to do in Japan. Still, 
I get the feeling I have done something 
wrong. Mrs. Seto quickly sets a pair of 
blue cloth slippers on the upper level in 
front of me. Fumiko touches my arm.

“Like this,” she says. She steps out of her 
shoes and right up to the next level and into 
a pair of slippers.

“The lower floor is for shoes only,” she 
explains.

I am standing on the shoe-only floor with 
my socks. 

“Oh, sorry!” I say. I jump into the slippers, 
feeling foolish.

Mrs. Seto holds out her hand as if I am 
a scared animal she is trying to calm. She 
gives me a confused smile. Fumiko laughs, 
covering her mouth with one hand.

“It’s okay,” Fumiko says. “Everyone 
forgets some time.”

Who knew shoes would be such an 
issue?

Mr. and Mrs. Seto exchange words in 
Japanese, and a new voice joins in. I look up 
and meet the dark brown eyes of a shaggy-
haired teenaged boy. He doesn’t smile.

Fumiko introduces her brother, Kenji.

“I am happy to meet you,” he says 
stiffly, like he’s reciting from an English 
textbook.

A look passes between Fumiko and her 
mother, and there is an awkward silence. 
Then Fumiko touches my arm again.

“Come, please,” she says. “I’ll show you 
our house.”

Her mother stalls her with a few words 
of Japanese.

“I’m sorry.” Fumiko turns to me, looking 
embarrassed. “You must be tired. I should 
have asked if you want to go to your 
room.”

This time it’s Mr. Seto who cuts in.

“My father suggests you might be hungry,” 
she says. “Would you like to eat?”

I glance from one attentive face to the 
other. Only Kenji hangs back, looking 
bored. Suddenly I feel overwhelmed. All 
I want to do is escape to a soft bed—or 
even a hard futon. A picture flashes into 
my mind of a Japanese wooden pillow I’d 
seen in a book. But at that moment I don’t 
care what they give me to sleep on.

The house tour is postponed. Mrs. Seto 
excuses herself to prepare me a bath. I 
think I am about to learn that baths are
different here too. After some urging by his 
father, Kenji picks up my suitcase. Fumiko 
and I follow him up a steep set of stairs. 
Kenji pushes open a door at the top landing 
and sets my suitcase down. I step into the 
room, relieved and a bit disappointed to see 
a short soft-looking bed. No futon on the 
floor and no wooden pillow.

I start to thank Kenji, but he is already 
gone. What’s his problem? I wonder, but I’m 
too tired to think about it now.

Fumiko shows me the bathroom, which 
is steaming up from the hot water pouring 
into a deep tub. The floor is tiled, and there 
is a shower nozzle and hose attached to the 
wall beside the bathtub.

“Where’s the toilet?” I ask.

“Down the hall,” Fumiko explains. “In 
Japan the bath is separate. In the old days, 
people did not have a bath in their homes 
at all. They went to a bathhouse.”

“That sounds kind of fun,” I say.

Fumiko turns off the water. “There, it’s 
ready now.” Seeing my confused look, she 
adds, “You sit on the chair to wash first.”

She points to a small plastic stool beside the 
tub. “Or stand and shower if you like. Then 
you can get into the bath and relax. Take as 
long as you like.”

“Do you want me to empty the water out 
of the tub after?” I ask.

“No, my mother will drain it when we 
have all finished.”

I get it now. You wash first to keep the 
water clean. It’s like a hot tub, but with 
people taking turns instead of getting in 
all at once. Maybe in the old days they all 
bathed together in the bathhouse.

“I will say good night now,” Fumiko says. 
“But if you need anything, please ask.”

“Thanks,” I tell her. “I’ll be okay.”

I lock the door behind Fumiko. It feels 
good to be alone.

When I step under the shower, I 
imagine I am washing away my old life. I 
lower myself into the steaming tub. I feel 
like I’m sinking into Japan and whatever 
comes next.

chapter four

I wake up feeling warm and cozy. I’m 
ready for my first day in Japan. I fling off 
the covers and jump out of bed. I pad 
barefoot to the window and push open 
the curtains.

Whoa! I am looking at a rice paddy. 
That’s what the dark space was across the 
street. It’s the size of a city block, flooded 
with water and surrounded by houses. The 
sun is beginning to rise over the rooftops.

Short tufts of green poke out of the water 
in dotted lines. A crow flaps lazily across 
the field and lands on a roof.

I’m not sure what I expected, but it is 
not to see a rice paddy in the middle of 
the city. Today should be interesting.

Now, what am I going to wear for my 
Japanese school debut? I choose a short 
lime green plaid kilt and a purple T-shirt. 
It clashes nicely with my hair. Not a look 
Melissa and her friends will love. At least 
I won’t look like everyone else.

When I go downstairs for breakfast, Mr. 
Seto has already left for work. Fumiko, 
Kenji and I sit at a North American-style 
table. Mrs. Seto sets out boiled eggs in 
little cups, bowls of yogurt and thick 
slices of white bread. Again, it’s not what 
I expected. I soon learn that this is the 
Setos’ idea of a North American’s breakfast. 


“This is good,” I tell Mrs. Seto through 
Fumiko. “But I’d like to try a Japanese 
breakfast while I’m here.”

Mrs. Seto smiles and nods, looking 
pleased.

Across the table Kenji glowers. He 
pushes aside his yogurt and gets up, 
muttering in Japanese.

“He has to get to school early for soccer 
practice,” Fumiko explains.

I wonder what he really said. Kenji 
seems like a jerk. But then he smiles at his 
mom and says something that must mean 
thanks for breakfast.

After breakfast, Fumiko gives me a tour 
of the house. It includes a special room 
that has tatami mats on the floor. They 
are made from some kind of grass. There’s 
a little wooden alter by the far wall and a 
special alcove called a tokonoma. There 
is a vase of flowers on a shelf and a scroll 
painting in the alcove, but there are no 
other decorations in the room. We have 
to take our slippers off before stepping 
inside. Not even slippers are allowed on 
the tatami floor. Fumiko explains that in 
the old days this would have been a typical 
room in a Japanese house.

Fumiko also shows me her bedroom. 
It is small with a pink bedspread and 
matching pink curtains with frills. She has a 
tiny cluttered desk and posters of Japanese 
pop stars on the walls.

My eyes zero in on a colorful book on 
the desk.

“Is that manga?” I ask.

“Yes,” Fumiko answers, her eyes lighting 
up. “Do you like manga?” She pronounces 
it munga.

“Some,” I say, trying not to sound too 
excited. She pulls the book out from under 
the papers and hands it to me. The title is 
in Japanese. The cover shows an image of 
a girl with a large head and huge liquid- 
looking eyes.

“Do you have any other manga?” I ask. 
I try to keep the disappointment out of my 
voice. This looks like it is for little kids.

“Oh yes,” Fumiko says, digging through 
the clutter on the desk.

She holds up another book. I recognize 
the blue cat on the cover. Doraemon, the 
robot cat from the future. More kid stuff.

“Do you have any Full Metal Alchemist 
or Bleach?” I ask.

“Ah, you know those manga?” she says, 
impressed. 

“Yeah, we have them in Canada,” I say.

“You like adventure manga?” she asks.

“I guess you could call it that.”

“I like more…,” she pauses, searching 
for the right English word, “…light-hearted 
manga.”

“Oh.” She likes the cutesy stuff with 
the big eyes.

“Kenji’s favorite is sports manga. But 
he might have one of the kind you like,” 
Fumiko says. “You could ask him after 
school.”

“Sure,” I say. Though I can’t picture 
Kenji lending me something of his.

We hurry back downstairs. Fumiko 
explains that she usually takes the train 
to school, but this morning her mom will 
drive us. Mrs. Seto has packed our lunches 
in small plastic boxes. She gives me a 
lunch box wrapped in blue fabric.

Mrs. Seto drops us off outside the school 
gates. The gates will be closed when 
school starts, Fumiko explains.

“They lock you in?” I ask.

“Oh no,” she says, her eyes wide. 
“Students can get in and out, but no cars 
can drive in.”

The building is large and modern. 
We join the crowd of students walking 
and riding bikes into the grounds. Most 
of them look at me with interest. Mr. 
Akimoto, the teacher who met us at the 
airport, is standing by the school. 

“Ohayo gozaimasu, sensei,” Fumiko 
greets him with a slight bow.

I copy her. I am not sure how to bow, 
so I omit that bit.

“Good morning, young ladies,” Mr. 
Akimoto says, smiling broadly.

In the foyer everyone is switching from 
shoes to green plastic slippers. Fumiko 
finds slippers for me. We store our shoes 
in her cubbyhole. There are no lockers.

We are greeted by squeals of excitement 
in the hallway. A pack of Japanese girls rushes up to us. Fumiko’s friends, 
obviously. Except for one slightly taller girl, 
they are all about the same size as Fumiko. 
I feel very large next to them.

Fumiko introduces me. The other girls 
are shy as they say hello. Then they turn 
back to each other and talk all at once. 
The shortest girl has a backpack with about 
twenty little plastic toys hanging from it. 
She says something that sounds like kow-
wah-ee, in an excited voice.

The other girls look me over and nod.

“Kawaii means cute,” Fumiko explains. 
“They think your outfit is cute.”

Cute is not exactly what I was going for, 
but I smile and thank them.

“Kow-wa…,” I try, not getting it right.

They all laugh and repeat the word.

“Kawaii,” I say, pointing at the little toys 
dangling from the backpack. In the name 
of international relations, I give no sign 
that the toys make me want to gag. What 
is it with all this cute stuff?

“Hai,” the girls agree in Japanese. They 
seem pleased with my efforts.

“Do you like shopping?” the shorter 
girl asks.

Shopping? What kind of question is 
that? I shrug.

“Sometimes, I guess.”

“Yeah, shopping at Value Village,” interjects 
a male English voice.

I turn to see DJ’s mocking grin. He 
ducks as if expecting me to punch him.

“Is that a store in Canada?” Fumiko 
asks.

“Yeah, a store he can’t afford to shop 
at,” I say loudly after DJ’s retreating 
back. 

I follow Fumiko into her classroom. 
She finds an extra chair so I can sit beside 
her. The girls gather on one side of the 
classroom and the boys on the other. They 
don’t mix like we do back home.

Fumiko’s friends cluster around us, 
whispering. I get the feeling they are 
working up to asking me something. 
Finally the taller girl is pushed forward.

“Do you…?” she begins. She falters and 
turns to Fumiko.

Words fly around the group. The others 
seem to be urging Fumiko to ask the 
question now. She looks embarrassed. 

“Do you dye your hair?” Fumiko finally 
asks.

I laugh. This is their big question? “Of 
course,” I tell them. “My real color is light 
brown.”

They all talk at once again. Fumiko 
tells me that students are not allowed to 
color their hair. The school has strict rules 
about personal appearance.

“What about that girl?” someone asks. 
She points across the room. A crowd has 
gathered around Melissa. Figures. Of 
course I get stuck in the same class as 
her.

“Does she dye hers?” Fumiko asks, her 
eyes on Melissa’s pale blond mane.

I’m tempted to say yes, but I know that 
her hair has been that color since she was 
small.

“No, that’s her real hair,” I admit.

Fumiko’s friends look impressed. At 
that moment, my eyes meet Melissa’s.

They catch for only a second. Then she 
looks through me, as if I am invisible. I 
wish I had told Fumiko’s friends that her 
hair is phony—just like the rest of her.

A loud student voice at the back of the 
room calls out some kind of command. 
The Japanese students immediately stand 
behind their desks. A teacher walks up to 
a podium at the front of the room and 
bows. The Japanese students bow back.

Homeroom lasts about five minutes. 
Next we have English class. Today the 
Canadian kids stand at the front of the 
room and answer questions: Do you like 
bands? Do you play basketball? Etcetera. 
Most of the students’ English is not as 
good as Fumiko’s. We have to speak very 
slowly.

There is a ten-minute break between 
classes to give the teacher time to move 
to the next class. The students stay in the 
same room. Math is next. I don’t understand 
what the teacher is saying, but I can 
read the numbers on the board, so I can 
follow some of it. There are two more
classes before lunch break. I am soon 
totally out of it and totally bored. 

For lunch we stay in the classroom. 
Fumiko and her friends push their desks 
together, so that we can talk. I unknot the 
blue cloth around my lunch box, feeling 
like I’m unwrapping a present. The box is 
divided into compartments. The biggest 
one contains rice. On top of the rice is 
a pink thing that Fumiko says is pickled 
plum. There is also a piece of fish, some 
green beans—all cold—and a slice of apple. 
The apple is cut so that the peel looks 
like pointy rabbit ears. Very kawaii. Aside 
from the apple, it’s the kind of meal I’m 
used to having hot, but it’s pretty good.

After the lunch break Fumiko and her 
friends get ready for the next class. I stand 
up and look for the rest of my group. 
Time for our tour of the city.

chapter five

Melissa and Zach lead the group out of 
the school. She sticks to Zach’s arm like 
a leach, laughing her phony laugh. A bus 
is waiting for us outside the gate. I climb 
on and aim for the first empty seat.

“Sorry, this seat’s saved,” the girl sitting 
by the window says.

“Whatever.” I give the seat a look like I 
wouldn’t want to go near it anyway.

I continue down the aisle until I see a 
pair of empty seats. I slump into one and
toss my backpack onto the other. Sorry, 
this seat’s saved, I mouth to the back of 
the girl’s head. Then I turn and stare out 
the window.

Thump. Someone bumps the back of 
my seat.

“Wha’s up, Red?” asks an annoying 
voice.

I sink lower in my seat, ignoring DJ. 
God, it’s like being back on the airplane.

“Can I have your attention, people?” 
Ms. Delucci’s voice rises thinly through 
the din. 

“Excuse me!” she tries again. But no 
one is listening.

Behind me, DJ is talking about some 
vending machines he discovered.

“Man, anyone can just walk up and buy 
a pack of cigarettes or a can of beer!” DJ 
says. His voice is filled with awe.

I roll my eyes. Whoever thought DJ 
would learn something on this trip must 
not know him. 

Suddenly a piercing whistle cuts through 
the noise. The talking stops and all eyes
turn forward. I sit up straight and see 
that Mr. Crawford has pushed up behind 
Ms. Delucci. Behind him stands Mr. 
Akimoto, who is either embarrassed or 
very interested in a dust speck on the 
floor. I wonder if he’s thinking how poorly 
behaved we are. 

“All right, now that I have your attention,” 
Mr. Crawford says. He gestures for Ms. 
Delucci to continue.

“I want you all to remember that you 
are ambassadors for Canada while you’re 
here,” she says. “That means you must be 
on your best behavior.”

She pauses and stares sternly at us. I 
feel like she is looking right at me. Then I 
realize the look is meant for DJ.

“Now,” she continues, “Suzuka High 
School and Mr. Akimoto have generously 
arranged a tour for us. Mr. Akimoto is 
giving up his afternoon to act as our 
guide.”

She sweeps out her arms as if welcoming 
a performer onto a stage. Mr. Akimoto steps 
forward holding a cordless microphone.

A sudden blast of music booms through 
the bus. For a second I think Mr. Akimoto 
is going to burst into song. I notice several 
television screens hanging from the ceiling. 
Every screen, blank a second ago, is now 
filled with what looks like a Japanese music 
video. Japanese script scrolls across the 
bottom of the screens.

“Karaoke!” someone yells.

Mr. Akimoto fiddles with the controls. 
The music silences and the screens go 
black.

“I am so sorry,” he apologizes with a 
bow. He sits down abruptly as the bus 
lurches into motion.

“As you can see,” he says, “this bus is 
equipped for karaoke entertainment.” He 
pronounces it kar-a-Oh-kay. “Perhaps you 
would like to try it later.”

Several people cheer. Mr. Akimoto 
smiles tolerantly. Ms. Delucci and Mr. 
Crawford give us the evil eye.

“But first, I am very pleased to show 
you the city of Suzuka,” Mr. Akimoto 
continues.

“Our first stop is the Suzuka Museum 
of Traditional Crafts, which specializes 
in katagami. This is the famous Japanese 
stencil art used to decorate the clothing of 
samurai,” Mr. Akimoto tells us. There are a 
few sounds of interest at the word samurai. 
Mr. Akimoto mistakes this for general 
keenness. He goes on with enthusiasm.

“There were many katagami shops in 
this area in the old days. Travelers would 
stop to buy fabric on their way to the 
famous shrine of Ise.”

Behind me, DJ and his friend snicker.

As the streets of Suzuka roll past us, 
Mr. Akimoto continues to talk. He points 
out the Honda factory and the new North 
American-style mall called Bell City. 
Apparently Suzuka means bell and deer. 
The name has something to do with a 
lost person and a bell hung from a deer’s 
neck.

I try to ignore DJ, who is doing an 
imitation of Mr. Akimoto.

“And there you have the famous Japanese 
smokestack,” DJ says as we drive by the
Honda factory. “And now you see the 
famous Japanese traffic sign…”

I want to tell him to shut up. But I have 
to smother a laugh when he points out “the 
famous pick-up-after-your-dog sign.” The 
sign has a cute cartoon dog, which makes 
the meaning obvious.

Some of the stores we pass have signs 
with manga-style illustrations—mostly the 
big-eyed cute variety. I smile to myself. The 
manga touch is everywhere.

By the time we arrive at the craft 
museum, I am happy for a break from both 
DJ and Mr. Akimoto. The museum tour 
is interesting, but DJ and the others have 
the attention spans of gnats. While Mr. 
Akimoto translates the guide’s explanation 
of stencil-cutting, I realize I am the only 
one left in the museum. Everyone else is 
either in the gift shop or back outside.

“How does that stay together?” someone 
asks.

I turn around, surprised to see Zach. 
He is bent over a large stencil covered 
with tiny detailed cuts. The museum guide
explains how a thin mesh is added to the 
back of the stencil to hold it together. The 
dye goes through the holes in the stencil 
and through the mesh.

“The whole process,” Mr. Akimoto 
concludes, “from preparing the stencil 
paper to cutting the stencil, can take two 
or three months.”

And that’s just for one stencil. Probably 
several stencils were used to decorate one 
piece of fabric. Not the kind of art I’d have 
patience for.

We join the others in the gift shop. 
Melissa grabs hold of Zach, throwing me 
a harsh look. I pretend not to notice.

After the craft museum, the bus takes 
us to a Buddhist temple and a Shinto 
shrine. Both are several hundred years 
old. Everything is interesting, but I’m 
getting tired of old things. What about 
all the modern stuff that Japan is famous 
for? Nintendo, state-of-the-art electronics, 
Tokyo clothing fashions, anime, manga…

As we climb back on the bus, people 
complain that the tour is boring. Maybe
Mr. Akimoto hears, because the next thing 
I know, we are driving by a racetrack.

“The famous Suzuka Circuit,” Mr. 
Akimoto says, pointing out the window. 
I swear I can feel the bus tip as everyone 
leans in that direction. But our excitement 
is short-lived.

“We don’t have time to stop there 
today,” Mr. Crawford says. He waves away 
the groans of disappointment.

“Mr. Jung, please take your seat,” he says 
to DJ, who has stood up in protest.

“What are we doing next, then?” DJ 
asks, a whine creeping into his voice. 
“When are we going to eat?”

“Yeah,” a few voices join in. “I’m so 
hungry.”

Mr. Crawford holds up his hands.

“What part did you not understand 
about being on your best behavior?” he 
says, letting his glare fall on each person 
in the bus. “Now, sit down and be quiet. 
No one’s going to starve. Our next stop 
is dinner.”


chapter six

In the restaurant, Mr. Akimoto tells us 
that a food buffet is called a Viking in 
Japan. Maybe the Japanese think Vikings 
eat this way. Whatever, the food looks 
great. There is a long counter covered 
with different things to choose from. The 
plates and bowls are smaller than the ones 
in restaurants at home. I heap different 
kinds of noodles, sushi, tempura and 
various mystery foods onto a plate.

Melissa and Zach are at one end of my 
table. As I walk by, I notice that Zach is 
trying just about everything, while Melissa 
only has a few small things on her plate.

I sit down and prepare to dig in. The 
waitress has given us forks as well as 
chopsticks. I pick up the chopsticks and 
start with some sushi. 

A man sitting nearby picks up his 
bowl with one hand and uses chopsticks 
to scoop up long noodles. The noodles 
stretch between his mouth and the bowl. 
I can hear the slurp as he sucks up the 
noodles. This seems like a fun way to eat, 
so I try it with my own noodles.

“Gawd!”

I look up and see Melissa looking at 
me with disgust. How long has she been 
watching me? Staring right at her, I scoop 
up more noodles and suck them noisily 
into my mouth. She turns away with a 
huff. Zach laughs. He catches my eye 
for a second, nods his head in Melissa’s 
direction and rolls his eyes.

That was weird.

After we have finished eating, we wait 
outside for our host parents. The Stepwagon 
pulls up with Mrs. Seto at the wheel. I’m 
disappointed that Fumiko isn’t with her. 
Mrs. Seto tries to tell me something about 
Fumiko and Kenji. Since she doesn’t have 
much English and I have no Japanese, it 
takes most of the drive for me to figure out 
that they are at a place called a juku. It has 
something to do with school.

When we arrive at the house it’s starting 
to grow dark. Mr. Seto is kneeling on 
the front steps trimming the branches of 
a miniature tree in a pot. Several small 
potted trees are arranged up one side of the 
stairway. Mr. Seto stands up to greet us. We 
stop to admire the trees.

“Bonsai,” Mr. Seto says, and I nod. I 
recognize the word.

“You make them small?” I ask.

“Small, yes.” He nods. I’m not sure if he’s 
agreeing they are small or if he’s saying that 
yes, he’s the one who prunes them.

Mrs. Seto opens the front door and holds 
her hand out, indicating I should enter first. A sound catches my attention, and I 
hesitate.

Creak, creak.

It’s the same sound I heard when I arrived. 
It’s coming from the flooded rice paddy 
across the street.

“Kaeru,” Mr. Seto says, noticing my 
curiosity.

“Frogs?” I ask.

He nods and smiles.

“Kaeru. Frogs.”

I grin back. It’s a little thing, but it feels 
like a big breakthrough in communication.

“I want to take a look,” I say, waving 
toward the other side of the street.

Mr. Seto’s smile disappears, and he 
says something in rapid Japanese. It goes 
straight over my head. So much for the 
breakthrough.

I gesture toward the rice paddy again and 
take a step in that direction.

Mr. Seto sets down his clippers and 
follows me.

“I’m just going across the street,” I try to 
tell him. But it’s no good. I have an escort

We walk the short distance in silence 
and stand at the edge of the field. It’s 
almost dark now, but there is still a 
tinge of pink in the sky. The croaks have 
stopped. We stand stiffly, waiting for them 
to start again. I scan the edge of the water 
and the rows of green plants but see no 
sign of frogs. 

“It’s okay, we can go back,” I say with a 
sigh, figuring Mr. Seto will understand.

“I guess going for a walk by myself is 
out of the question,” I comment under my 
breath as we walk back to the house.

I hope Fumiko will be home soon. 
I feel out of place in the Setos’ house 
without her. I can’t talk with her parents, 
but they don’t want me to be on my own. I 
try watching television with them but can’t 
follow anything. I feel an overwhelming 
urge to speak to someone in English. I 
wonder what my family is doing right 
now. Of course it’s the middle of the night 
there. They are all still sleeping. Maybe 
I should e-mail them and let them know 
I’m still alive.

The Setos understand me when I say 
I’d like to use the computer—konpyuta, 
as Mr. Seto says. Mr. Seto sets me up in 
Fumiko’s room, switching her computer to 
English characters. I’m afraid he’s going 
to stay in the room with me, but he leaves 
after I thank him.

I type a quick note: The Setos are nice, 
the food is good, etc. It’s just the usual 
meaningless stuff that parents want to 
know. I’m just finishing when Fumiko and 
Kenji come home.

“Hi,” Fumiko says when she finds me. 
“Did you have a good day?”

“Yeah, it was pretty good,” I tell her. 
“You were getting tutored?”

“Tutored?” she asks. “Oh, you mean 
juku, cram school. I have much studying 
to do and get help there. So does Kenji. 
Do you have cram school in Canada?”

“Ah…” I have to think. “Not exactly. 
Last year I had a chemistry tutor for a 
while…someone who helped me study.”

“You don’t have help now?” she asks.

“No, I don’t really need it anymore,” I say.

“You must be a very good student,” 
Fumiko says wistfully. 

“I’m not that great a student,” I tell her, 
“but I do okay.”

“I see,” she says, frowning. “In Japan, 
everyone who wants to go to university 
goes to juku. I am afraid I will not get into 
a good university if I do not study and do 
well on exams. Don’t you want to go to 
university?”

“I guess. I haven’t thought much about it 
yet. I’d like to study art, but maybe I’ll do 
computer graphics or something.”

“I want to be a translator,” she says. 
“I want to translate English books into 
Japanese or work for a company with 
English clients.” Her eyes meet mine for a 
moment with a look of intensity, and then 
they flick away. “But I don’t know if my 
English will be good enough.”

“It seems really good to me,” I tell her. 
I’m surprised at how worried she is. I had 
pegged her for someone who avoided anything 
more serious than choosing which 
Hello Kitty barrette to wear.

Before bed, I have a hot bath again. 
It’s a routine I could get used to. In my 
room afterward, I pick up my sketchbook 
and flip to the manga character I’ve been 
working on. She stands legs apart, arms 
across her chest as if she is blocking out 
the world. But she’s daring it to come at 
her at the same time. I pick up my pencil 
and begin to sketch. She needs some kind 
of power, like a magic sword or a jewel 
pendant…

I start to sketch a sword hanging at 
her waist, but it doesn’t seem right. I try 
a dagger instead…Maybe it should be 
something more futuristic—some kind of 
gun…no, that’s not right, either…

I can’t just come up with a character on 
her own. I need to figure out what kind of 
world she lives in. I try to imagine where 
my character is, who her enemies are. But 
I can’t concentrate.

I toss the sketchbook onto the bed 
and sigh. Did Zach Bellows look at me 
like he was sharing a joke about Melissa 
tonight? Nah, that couldn’t be right…I
walk over to the window. Across the street, 
the rice paddy is dark. I can hear the frogs 
croaking.

So far, Japan is not what I expected. I feel 
like I have seen so much but just touched 
the surface. There is still a whole hidden 
world out there.

chapter seven

The next morning I ask Fumiko if I can 
borrow a couple of her manga books.

“Sure,” she says, “but wouldn’t you rather 
borrow some from Kenji?”

“No, that’s okay,” I say quickly. “I should 
give Doraemon a try.”

We head down to breakfast. I have 
Doraemon and another manga under my 
arm.

“Ohayo gozaimasu,” I say to Mrs. Seto.

Kenji is at the table eating what looks like 
miso soup. He’s using his chopsticks to pick 
things out of the bowl.

“Hi,” I say, sitting down and setting my 
books on the table beside me. Fumiko sits 
next to me.

Kenji looks up, grunts something and 
then goes back to eating. He is wearing a 
blue T-shirt under his uniform. I wonder if 
that’s against the school rules.

On the table in front of me is a bowl of 
soup, a bowl of rice and a small dish with a 
piece of fish and something else. I pull my 
soup closer and look for a spoon, but there 
are only chopsticks. Out of the corner of 
my eye I see Kenji pick up his soup bowl 
and drink from it. I pick up my bowl and 
do the same. 

“Is this a typical Japanese breakfast?” I 
ask.

“Yes,” Fumiko says. She explains that the 
stuff with the fish is natto, fermented soya 
beans.

The pink plum I recognize from my 
lunch yesterday. I pick it up with my
chopsticks and pop it in my mouth. Sour, 
but good.

I notice Kenjo sneak a look at me from 
under his bangs. His glance lingers on 
the manga beside me, but I can’t read his 
expression.

We have less time to get ready for school 
this morning since we have to walk to 
the train station. Mrs. Seto hands me my 
lunch.

“Arigato gosaimasu,” I tell her. Japanese 
words are starting to feel more natural.

We leave the house with Kenji, but as 
soon as we are out the door, another boy 
hails him. The boy is thin with longish hair. 
He pushes his hair away from his eyes to get 
a better look at me.

“Hi,” he says carefully. “My name is 
Takeshi. What is your name?” He grins, 
pleased with himself.

His smile is infectious. I can’t help 
smiling back.

“Hi, my name’s Dana,” I tell him.

He laughs and looks at Kenji as if it 
is hilarious that I answered. Like I’m a
talking animal or something. This gets 
me annoyed.

“Hey, I’m still here,” I snap. “And yes, 
I can talk.”

He looks back surprised. Fumiko 
laughs, her hand over her mouth. Kenji 
scowls, but I ignore him. Takeshi grins 
at me again, and I smile back. He seems 
like the kind of guy you couldn’t stay mad 
at for long.

“Hey, you’ve got a blue T-shirt on too,” 
I say, seeing blue at his collar. “Isn’t that 
against the school rules?”

He continues to smile, but he obviously 
hasn’t a clue what I said. He turns to Kenji, 
who looks away. Fumiko translates.

“Ahh!” Takeshi’s grin broadens. He 
stops walking and begins to unbutton his 
shirt. Kenji looks embarrassed.

“Japan soccer team!” Takeshi says. He 
opens his uniform shirt to show me a blue 
soccer jersey with a black and white crest. 
The crest is a crow with three legs. The 
center leg is kicking a soccer ball.

“Cool,” I say.

“Cool,” Takeshi repeats. “Sugoi.”

“Sugoi means cool?” I ask.

Takeshi nods and grins broadly.

“Why does the team crest have a three-
legged crow?” I ask.

This time Takeshi turns to Fumiko right 
away. She translates my question. The two 
boys talk for a minute. Then Takeshi turns 
back to me and shrugs. Kenji looks away.

“I don’t know, either,” Fumiko says, 
embarrassed. 

“That’s okay,” I say and change the 
subject. “So, they don’t get in trouble for 
wearing a T-shirt under their uniforms?”

“They’ll get in trouble if they don’t 
button their shirts over top,” Fumiko 
says.

Kenji is a few paces ahead of us now, 
and Takeshi hurries to catch up to him. 
Kenji and Takeshi walk on together, their 
backs to us. Takeshi turns around briefly 
to include us with a grin. If I’d thought 
Kenji’s unfriendliness was a Japanese boy 
thing, Takeshi has proved that wrong. I 
step closer to Fumiko.

“Why doesn’t Kenji like me?” I whisper.

Fumiko stops walking and looks at me 
with surprise. Then she looks down, embarrassed.


“Kenji likes you,” she says, but she won’t 
meet my eyes.

“He doesn’t talk to me,” I say.

“He thinks he can not speak English 
well. He does not want you to know,” she 
whispers. This time she does meet my 
eyes.

“You’re kidding?” My mouth drops 
open.

“No.” She shakes her head. “It’s true. It 
hurts his pride to admit his English is not 
good.”

I want to ask her more, but the boys have 
stopped to wait for us.

As we catch up, Takeshi gives me a 
teasing smile.

“Girls talk so much, they forget to walk,” 
he says, looking proud of his joke.

“Just giving you a chance to stop and 
admire us,” I say. I give him my best mocking 
imitation of a flirty Melissa smile.

He laughs. He may not understand 
what I said, but he knows at least that 
I’m teasing him. Kenji has turned away 
and started to walk again, so I can’t tell 
if he’s cracked any hint of a smile. If he 
does like me, he’s sure keeping it secret. 
Takeshi’s English isn’t very good, but it 
hasn’t stopped him from being friendly.

We funnel into the small train station, 
joining the line up in front of the ticket 
machines. Fumiko buys our tickets, and 
we push through the turnstile. We don’t 
wait for the boys. The platforms are 
crowded with kids in school uniforms and 
adults dressed for work. I don’t see any 
other Canadian kids. I am the only person 
in the whole crowd with red hair. Several 
people sneak looks at me.

We manage to find seats on the train. 
Some people have to stand. Takeshi and 
Kenji squeeze in to stand in front of us. 
As the train starts, a couple of students 
nearby get up the courage to ask Fumiko 
and the boys about me. Soon all the kids 
on the train start to shift toward our
end of the car. They call out questions 
and press close to listen. I feel like a 
celebrity—though Fumiko does most of 
the talking.

When we get off the train, we walk a 
few blocks to the school. Most of the train 
crowd is with us. I walk with Fumiko and 
the other girls. Kenji and Takeshi drift 
off with the guys. The girls press close, 
giggling and excited. One taller girl is 
encouraged to stretch to her full height 
next to me while the others compare us. 
The girl is still a couple of inches shorter 
than me. They all exclaim over how tall 
I am.

It’s weird to have all these girls buzzing 
around me. I wonder if this is what it feels 
like to be part of the Melly Mob—to have 
everyone pay attention to you instead of 
pretending you don’t exist.

chapter eight

As we approach the school, I find myself 
hoping Melissa and the others will see me. 
Me, being popular. But then I catch myself. 
How lame. I don’t care what Melissa and 
her so-called friends think. Unlike her, I 
don’t need a bunch of groupies hanging 
off me to feel good about myself.

A bus is already parked in front of 
the school, and Mr. Crawford and Ms. 
Delucci are standing in front of it.

Ms. Delucci waves me over. I say good-
bye to Fumiko and the others.

“We’re getting an earlier start on our 
tour today,” Ms. Delucci tells me. “If you 
can help me round up the others, I’d 
appreciate it.”

I look at her blankly. Me, round up the 
others? I don’t think so. Interpreting my 
look correctly, Ms. Delucci sighs.

“Well, we’ll have to wait until the 
homeroom teachers announce it, then,” 
she says.

“We could always leave without the 
others,” I suggest.

“Right,” she says sarcastically. Then we 
catch sight of DJ and a couple of other 
boys. “Though it is tempting,” she adds.

When our group has assembled beside 
the bus, Mr. Crawford holds up his hands 
for our attention. Before he can say anything, 
DJ calls out.

“Are we going to the racetrack 
today?”

“No, Derek, we are not going to the 
racetrack,” Mr. Crawford says with forced
patience. “You can do those things on 
your own time. Today we are going to a 
Japanese historical site.”

There are a few groans.

“What kind of historical site?” Zach 
asks from near the front.

“We’re going to visit an old town called 
Seki-cho,” Mr. Crawford explains. “In the 
old days, Japan was ruled by the Shogun, 
the head of the samurai lords. He lived in 
Edo, which is now Tokyo. The emperor 
was only a figurehead then, and he lived 
in Kyoto. All the lords had to have homes 
in Edo as well as on their own land. They 
had to spend every second year in Edo, 
so the Shogun could keep control over 
them.” 

Mr. Crawford is in socials-teacher 
mode. “So, there was always a lot of 
traffic flowing to and from Edo. The main 
route between Kyoto and Edo was called 
the Tokaido Road. There were stations 
or rest stops all along the route. Seki-cho 
was one of those stops. It hasn’t changed 
much in two hundred years.”

“That’s just great,” Melissa grumbles. 
“I guess they don’t have Starbucks or 
McDonald’s, then.”

A few people snicker.

“And we have one more surprise,” Mr. 
Crawford continues. “Mr. Akimoto can’t 
come with us today. He’s making arrangements 
for a special trip tomorrow.”

“Where? Where are we going?” Several 
interested voices interrupt.

“I’m not going to tell you until we know 
for sure,” Mr. Crawford says. “I’ve got a 
cell phone with me, and Mr. Akimoto will 
call as soon as all of the plans have been 
confirmed.”

He holds up his hand for attention as 
talk ripples through the group.

“Now, since Mr. Akimoto can’t be with 
us, the school has decided to let its two 
top English students join us.” He pauses 
to let this sink in. “Some of you will know 
them: Fumiko Seto and Aki Nishikawa.”

I’m one of the first people on the bus 
this time. I find a seat near the front 
where Fumiko will see me. After about
fifteen minutes, Fumiko and Aki show up. 
They climb on, and Ms. Delucci introduces 
them. 

Fumiko looks pleased but shy as she 
smiles at all of us. She sees the empty 
seat beside me and gives me a grateful 
look when I gesture for her to join me. I 
feel weird to be actually saving a seat for 
someone.

“See,” I whisper to Fumiko. “Even your 
school thinks you’re a good translator.”

Fumiko shakes her head and hides her 
smile behind one hand, but I can tell she 
is pumped.

The drive to Seki-cho takes about a half 
an hour. The bus lets us off in front of a 
temple.

Mr. Crawford gestures down the narrow 
street of wooden buildings. Many have 
curved roofs and wooden bars over the 
upper story windows.

“As I was telling you earlier,” he says, 
“this street has hardly changed in over two 
hundred years. I’d like you to imagine for 
a minute what it would have looked like
with the street full of samurais and ladies in 
kimonos…”

There’s silence for a second as if everyone 
really is trying to picture it. Then Melissa’s 
voice cuts through the quiet.

“Look, there’s a café. It says in English 
right there on the sign.”

Everyone turns to see. 

“I’m dying for a coffee,” she announces, 
like we all care. “Please tell me they have 
normal coffee.”

She looks past Zach.

“Where’s that girl?…Fumiko, you have 
to help me,” she pleads, catching sight of 
Fumiko beside me.

Mr. Crawford holds up a hand to get our 
attention again.

“You’re welcome to get a coffee if you 
like and explore the street on your own. But 
before you all take off, we need to go over a 
few things.” He gives us a quick version of the 
you-are-ambassadors speech. Then he tells us 
to meet back at the temple in two hours.

Melissa pushes through the group and 
grabs Fumiko’s arm.

“Come on, Fumiko,” she says, ignoring 
me.

Fumiko turns and apologizes before 
allowing Melissa to drag her away.

“I will help people order coffee,” she 
says to me and anyone listening. “Then we 
can walk along the street and look at some 
points of interest.”

I watch Fumiko disappear into the café 
with Melissa and the others. So that’s it. I’ve 
lost Fumiko. Was I thinking I was going to 
spend the day with her? Did I actually want 
to? Whatever. I’m not sticking around to 
hear Melissa dis me in front of her. There 
is a dull ache in the back of my chest, but 
I shove it aside. I’d rather be on my own 
anyway.

Maya and a few others are walking 
down the middle of the street just ahead 
of me. I stop and pretend interest in a shop 
window. In the window display a yellow 
ceramic cat sits with one paw raised as if 
beckoning people into the store. I hesitate 
for a second, take a deep breath, and then 
I push open the door and step inside.

The store is small and crowded with 
trinkets. An older woman wearing a faded 
pink apron over modern clothes stands 
behind the counter. She smiles and says 
something in Japanese. I smile back.

“I’m just looking,” I say in English.

On one shelf there is a row of yellow 
cats, smaller versions of the one in the 
window. I pick one up and look at it. 
The cat has a red collar with a gold bell 
painted around its neck. On the bottom 
of the figure is a sticker that says five 
hundred. Five hundred yen is somewhere 
around five dollars.

“Maneki-neko,” the shop woman says, 
coming out from behind the counter to 
hover beside me.

“Lucky cat,” she adds in careful 
English.

I nod and smile. I’ve seen cats like this 
in Japanese restaurants back in Vancouver. 
This one looks handmade. Maybe my 
mom would like it for her office.

“I’ll get this one,” I say, bringing the 
cat to the counter.

The woman ducks behind the counter. 
She wraps the cat in tissue paper before 
placing it in a plastic bag. She says something 
in Japanese and pushes a tray across 
the counter toward me. I place a thousand 
yen bill onto the tray. The woman smiles 
broadly and sets my change into the tray. 
I smile back. It’s like we’re talking with 
smiles.

“Arigato gozaimashita,” the woman says 
as I turn to go.

“Arigato,” I tell her.

Back on the street again, I’m in a better 
mood. This is the first time I’ve been in a 
Japanese store by myself, I realize. It went 
pretty well. I need to get away on my own 
more on this trip.

The rest of the morning I duck in and 
out of stores, trying to avoid Melissa. This 
also means keeping out of sight of Fumiko. 
But I’m sure Melissa and the rest of the 
group are keeping her busy. At one point I 
see them a block away talking and laughing. 
Before they notice me, I slip through a 
doorway into some kind of museum.

A woman greets me in Japanese. When 
I don’t understand, she hands me an 
English pamphlet that says the building 
used to be an inn. I pay the entrance fee 
and walk through a dirt passageway. The 
pamphlet explains what all the rooms 
used to be. This passage was the kitchen. 
There is a room at the front of the inn 
with a raised wooden floor where the inn’s 
guests were greeted.

On the top floor is a sleeping room 
with old-fashioned futons on the floor. 
There are wooden headrests that look 
like pedestals with little flat pillows on 
top. I can’t imagine how anyone could 
sleep on them. The inn has three separate 
sleeping rooms. The floor of each room is 
slightly higher than the last. Apparently, 
the more important the guests were, the 
higher their sleeping level. At the front of 
the inn, the windows that overlook the 
road have angled wooden bars in front of 
them. The pamphlet explains that the bars 
allowed people to look at the street below 
without being seen. Ordinary people were
not supposed to look directly at higher 
class people. But if everyone knew what 
the bars were for, it would be no secret 
that they were being looked at, it seems 
to me.

Still, I like the idea of being able to spy 
on people down below. I look out through 
the bars to test it out. 

I realize it is time to meet at the temple. 
I won’t be able to avoid the others anymore. 
As I walk back up the street, I fix 
my face into a non-caring mask.

chapter nine

At the temple, I check in with Ms. Delluci 
and Mr. Crawford. A few people are 
already sitting on the stairs eating their 
lunches. DJ and another guy are kicking 
a hacky sack around in the middle of the 
courtyard. I walk past them, ignoring the 
comment DJ throws at me.

At the other end of the courtyard is a 
shrine with a statue of a kneeling bald guy 
inside. Someone has tied a cloth baby’s
bib around the statue’s neck. The bib is 
faded and weathered—like it’s been there 
for a while.

Suddenly something thuds into the side 
of my head. I whirl around.

“Sorry about that, Red,” DJ calls loudly. 
The hacky sack is lying on the ground at 
my feet.

“Yeah, right,” I say under my breath.

“Can you throw it back?” he has the 
nerve to ask.

Not likely. I give him a look of disgust 
and turn away. 

There is a little gate at the back of the 
courtyard. I walk through it, ignoring DJ. 
I follow a path that leads to a garden. 
There is a small pond in the middle of the 
garden and a narrow path winding around 
it. I find a bench behind a tree, sit down 
and take out my lunch. On the other side 
of the pond, low-hanging trees and shrubs 
flow down the hill like a waterfall. Maybe 
I’ll take my sketchbook out after I eat. 
Maybe instead of working on my manga 
girl I’ll try drawing the pond.

As I unwrap my lunch, I notice a 
ceramic frog with a baby frog on its back. 
Is that what the frogs in the rice paddies 
look like? Is it just decoration or does 
it mean something? There are so many 
things in Japan that are still a mystery to 
me. I don’t know how I ever thought I 
would fit in here.

After lunch I am forced to head back. The 
bus is waiting at the temple. Reluctantly, I 
walk to the back of the group.

“Dana!”

I turn to see Fumiko making her way 
through the crowd. Behind her, Melissa 
looks annoyed.

“Are you okay?” Fumiko asks. “I was 
worried when I couldn’t find you.”

“Yeah, I’m fine,” I say, a little snappier 
than I intend. What is it with her and her 
family? Why don’t they want me to go anywhere 
on my own?

“Why didn’t you wait for me?” she asks.

“You were busy translating,” I say. It 
sounds like an accusation.

Fumiko stares at me for just a second.

She looks confused and maybe hurt. Then 
she looks down.

“Your friends asked a lot of questions,” 
she says.

“They’re not my friends,” I tell her.

Fumiko and I climb onto the bus 
together, not talking. When the bus is 
full, Mr. Crawford raises a hand for our 
attention.

“I’ve just heard from Mr. Akimoto,” he 
says. “Our special trip is a go.”

“So, are you going to fill us in?” 
someone calls out.

He’s probably discovered another 
museum or old town for us to visit, I 
think.

Mr. Crawford is smiling. “Tomorrow,” 
he says, “we take the bullet train to 
Tokyo.”

A cheer explodes through the bus. More 
questions are thrown at the teachers.

“How long do we get to stay there?”

“Do the host kids get to come?”

We are going for three days, including 
travel. Just the group from Canada, plus
Mr. Akimoto. My mind is jumping with 
images—like a crazy channel clicker. 
Tokyo. Tall buildings. Crowds of people. 
Manga studios. Modern stores. Lights. 
Signs. Everything.

I’m still lost in my imagination when 
Fumiko leans close to me.

“Have I done something wrong?” she 
asks.

“What?” I look at her, startled.

“Did I do something to make you 
angry?”

“Of course not,” I say sharply. Then I 
catch myself. This is Fumiko I’m talking 
to, not Melissa and the rest.

“Look,” I start again, making my voice 
softer. “I’m not mad at you. You didn’t do 
anything wrong. It’s just…”

How can I explain?

“I think I understand,” she says quietly. 
“You said the others are not your friends…
I think you are like Kenji.”

“What do you mean?” I demand.

“When he fears embarrassment, he is 
like a nut—hard on the outside.”

“I’m not embarrassed,” I tell her.

“Maybe not,” she says. “But maybe something 
else.” She looks at me sideways as if 
she is checking the impact of her words.

I force myself to swallow the angry 
comeback that rises in my throat. I’m not 
anything like Kenji.

Back at the Setos’ that night, I pack for 
the trip to Tokyo. I flip through the pages 
of Fumiko’s Doraemon manga. I wonder 
if I should bother taking it. It is mostly 
filled with drawings of the boy, Nobita, 
and Doraemon, the oversized cat. The 
people’s eyes are huge, and there are lots 
of exclamation marks coming off the faces 
to emphasize emotions. Doraemon pops 
out of a drawer, and Nobita is startled. 
Nobita eats an animal cracker and starts 
turning into a cat. Doraemon gets mad, 
more people get mad…But that’s about as 
much as I can figure out.

There is a knock on my door. I open 
it and am surprised to see Kenji standing 
there. He holds something out to me
without meeting my eyes. A pile of manga 
books. 

“Thanks,” I say as I take them. The one 
on the top is Full Metal Alchemist. Fumiko 
must have told him the type of manga I 
like.

We stand there for a second. Before I can 
think of anything to say, he walks away. I 
remember Fumiko saying that Kenji acts like 
a jerk to hide his embarrassment. Maybe it’s 
true, and he’s not so bad after all.

I close the door and sit on my bed, 
laughing to myself. I’m picturing a manga 
panel of me and Kenji looking at each other. 
Our emotions are drawn in Doraemon style. 
I look like Nobita when Doraemon climbs 
out of the drawer. My eyes bug out, my 
mouth opens wide. Lines of surprise shoot 
out around my head. Kenji has water drops 
of anxiety coming from his face or maybe 
crosshatched shading across his cheeks to 
show his embarrassment.

But if Fumiko is right about Kenji, is she 
also right about me?

chapter ten

In the morning we take the express train 
to Nagoya. The trip is about an hour and 
a half. We buy bento box lunches in the 
Nagoya station while we wait for the train 
to Tokyo. The streamlined, white, bullet 
trains ease in and out of the station almost 
silently.

Finally we board one with a long rounded 
nose. The train is already full of people, so 
we have to spread out. I slip into an empty seat beside a Japanese businessman, so 
I don’t have to sit with anyone from our 
group. As the others settle into seats, Ms. 
Delucci walks up the aisle, counting heads 
and giving warnings. I sit back and dig into 
my cold bento box lunch. I stare past the 
man beside me and out the window. We 
soon leave the city behind. The train speeds 
through rolling farmland, rice paddies and 
clusters of houses with brown tile roofs. 
Occasionally I glimpse the ocean.

After about an hour and a half, Mr. 
Akimoto walks down the aisle, telling us 
to look out the windows on the left of the 
train. We may be able to see Mount Fuji, 
a sacred mountain. I’m on the opposite 
side of the train, so I have to look past the 
people across the aisle. I can’t see much. 

“I think I see it!” someone from our 
group calls out and is echoed by other 
voices, both English and Japanese.

A Japanese woman across the aisle steps 
out of her seat and gestures for me to take 
her spot so I can get a better view. I move 
over quickly, smile my thanks and bend
to the window. There, now I see it. A brief 
glimpse of a white peak through a gap in the 
clouds.

“We’re lucky today,” Mr. Akimoto says with 
a broad smile. “Mount Fuji does not always 
show itself.”

A few people point cameras out the 
window before the clouds swallow the 
mountain again. I return to my seat, thanking 
the woman once more. The businessman 
beside me smiles as I sit back down.

Seeing Mount Fuji has broken the ice 
on the train. There is a murmur of friendly 
voices the rest of the trip. Two hours after 
leaving Nagoya, we pull into Tokyo station. 
Anticipation bubbles through me. Tokyo, here 
I come!

We drop our bags at our hotel and then hit 
the subway. There are two maps of the subway 
on the wall. One has Japanese place names 
and one has English. The English doesn’t help. 
The map is a total maze of colored lines.

“We’re going to Ueno Park,” Mr. 
Akimoto says, pointing toward the top of 
the English map.

“Now remember,” Ms. Delucci warns. 
“We have to stick together. If anyone gets 
separated from the group, find a subway 
attendant. Ask them to page Mr. Akimoto, 
and then stay put.”

With a little luck, maybe we’ll lose 
Melissa and her groupies.

I half expect to see crowds of people 
being packed into subway cars by uniformed 
workers. I saw a clip of this on tv once. 
The workers were squeezing people in using 
something like push brooms. But it is not 
that bad now. 

We finally emerge at Ueno Park. 
Unfortunately we haven’t lost anyone. It’s 
sunny out now. The wide sidewalk at the 
entrance to the park is lined with vendors 
selling food and souvenirs. Colorful banners 
with Japanese writing hang from many of 
the stalls. 

Before Ms. Delucci has finished counting 
heads, DJ has bought a paper cone full 
of grilled meat. Melissa and a bunch of 
the girls are begging Mr. Crawford to let 
them get something before they faint from
hunger. I can see that he is going to give in, 
so I head over to a stall selling shaved ice. 
I point to the red flavored syrup and hope 
for the best.

It turns out to be cherry and delicious.

Once everyone has food, we walk along 
the tree-lined sidewalk into the park. It’s 
obviously a popular place. There are people 
everywhere—babies in strollers, gray-haired 
grandparents. There are groups of picnickers 
sitting on plastic blankets. I even see a few 
people dressed in kimonos.

In the trees overhead, huge crows caw 
loudly. One swoops down in front of us 
to snatch food from the sidewalk. Melissa 
squeals, and Zach lunges at the crow to 
scare it away. It flies up to a low tree branch 
and squawks at Zach and Melissa. Everyone 
else laughs. Several more crows join the 
first one. They caw at us as we pass under 
the tree.

“The Tokyo National Museum is just 
ahead,” Mr. Crawford tells us, raising his 
voice. “We’ll use the fountain in front of 
the museum as our meeting spot.”

“Do we have to go into the museum?” 
someone asks.

Mr. Crawford narrows his eyes.

“Yes,” he says. “This is a socials studies 
trip. I expect you to find at least two 
things in the museum to tell me about 
later.”

Everyone groans.

The museum is an older, creamy-colored, 
stone building. In front of the entrance is 
a long rectangular pond with a low round 
fountain in the center. 

We make arrangements to meet by the 
pond in two hours.

“And remember,” Mr. Crawford says, “I 
expect each of you to tell me about two 
things you learn about in there.”

With a group sigh, we head inside.

“He didn’t say how long we have to 
stay,” I hear DJ whisper. “We look at two 
things; then we’re out of there.”

chapter eleven

The first room of the museum is filled 
with old stone statues. They remind me 
of the statue with the bib in Seki-cho. 
Everyone from our group crowds around 
the statues. I guess we all had the same 
idea as DJ. Now I’ll have to look at more 
things. I don’t want to report to Mr. 
Crawford with the same thing as everyone 
else. I also don’t want to leave the museum 
at the same time as the others.

I cut through the statue room and 
then through a room filled with samurai 
swords. The walls of the next room are 
hung with painted screens and scrolls—all 
behind glass. I take my time walking 
through this one. Colorful paintings of 
birds, trees and women wearing kimonos 
are all done using simple lines. They are 
kind of like manga, but with a different 
subject and style.

“You could do stuff like that,” says a 
voice beside me.

I turn, startled. It’s Zach.

“I looked at your sketchbook,” he says. 
“You’re pretty good.”

“Thanks,” I say warily. I search his face 
to see if he is making fun of me.

“Zach! What are you talking to her 
for?” Melissa’s voice pierces the quiet. She 
stomps up and grabs Zach’s arm. “Come 
on, we’ve seen more than two things. I 
want to get out of this boring hole.”

Zach lets her drag him away, but he 
looks back at the museum cases as if he’d 
rather see more.

I continue making my way through the 
museum, stopping to look at things here 
and there. Many of the paintings, kimonos 
and tea bowls are hundreds of years old. 
Some of the statues and pottery are even 
a thousand years old. Pretty amazing.

When I leave the building, there is 
no one from my group in sight. I let out 
a deep satisfied sigh. Finally I am by 
myself.

Now that I’ve seen all the old art, I’d 
really like to see some new art. I wish I 
could visit a manga studio or see what 
kind of manga is for sale here. Maybe if I 
get out of the park I can find a store.

I take the path back toward the subway. 
The air is warm and slightly muggy. I look 
around as I walk, enjoying my freedom. 
With the Melly Mob out of the way, I can 
relax.

The area around the subway is crowded 
with small stores and restaurants, though 
there are no tall flashy buildings like 
we saw on the way to our hotel. I walk 
through the throng of people, pretending
I know where I’m going. Occasionally my 
red hair catches someone’s attention and 
their eyes flick my way. But there are no 
rude stares.

There are stores selling stuff you might 
see anywhere—clothing, kitchenware, knickknacks. 
Eventually I come to a convenience 
store. Through the window I see a long 
shelf of magazines, books and manga. A 
recorded female voice greets me as I walk 
through the door.

I pass shelves of intriguing-looking 
candy as I make my way to the books. 
The manga are piled on a lower shelf, 
beneath the magazines. The artwork 
on the covers immediately draws me in. 
There is boys’ manga, girls’ manga, kids’ 
manga, adult manga. There’s even X-rated 
manga sealed in plastic wrap. There are 
boys playing basketball, samurai warriors 
in sword fights and lovers about to kiss. 
There are ultramodern city settings and 
ancient Japanese village settings…

I flip through book after book. I am 
fascinated with the images. Though for
the most part, I can’t figure out what is 
happening. 

After a while I pick out a couple of 
manga that I hope Fumiko and Kenji will 
like. I choose one for myself that has a 
style I want to study. Then I buy a bag 
of tiny moon-shaped crackers and some 
candy that has manga-style pictures of animals 
on the package. As I leave the store, 
the recorded voice thanks me.

Outside on the street, I start heading 
back toward the park. Or at least, that’s 
what I think I’m doing. After a few blocks 
of walking, I stop and look around. 
Nothing looks familiar. The store beside 
me has a large red sign with black Japanese 
writing. Did I pass that sign before? I’m 
not sure. I walk a little farther. There’s no 
sign of the park. A small tickle of panic 
stirs in the back of my chest.

I scan the faces of the people passing 
by. Do any of them speak English?

“Excuse me.” I approach a middle-aged 
woman with a kind face. “Can you tell me 
the way to…”

She shakes her head and walks away 
before I can finish.

I look around again. Maybe someone 
younger would be more likely to speak 
English. I catch a young man’s eye and step 
forward.

“Excuse me,” I try again.

“Sorry,” the man says. He looks a bit 
embarrassed. “My English not good.” He 
starts to move away.

“Wait!” I call, grabbing hold of his 
arm.

He looks alarmed.

“Sorry.” I let go quickly. I widen my eyes 
and attempt to give him a lost-puppy look. 
I hope my growing panic does not add a 
crazed tinge. I try to think of the simplest 
way to form my question.

“Can you tell me where Ueno Park is?” 
I ask.

He starts to shake his head.

“Ueno Park?” I ask again.

I can almost see the lightbulb turn on 
above his head.

“Ah, Ueno Park,” he repeats, smiling.

He points using all his fingers, not just 
one. “Ueno Park that way,” he says.

It’s the opposite direction from the one 
I’ve been walking.

“Thank you! Arigato gozaimsu!” I tell 
him, not minding the looks my raised voice 
draws.

Relieved, I retrace my steps. It must be 
getting close to the time we’re supposed 
to meet.

Finally I reach a park entrance. But it 
isn’t the same one that I left earlier. A sign 
says Ueno Park, though. At least I know 
I’m in the right place. How hard can it be 
to find the museum?

I follow the path into the park. I watch 
for the stands where we bought food, the 
trees where we saw the crows or anything 
that looks familiar. I’d even be happy to 
see someone from my group.

“Gaijin,” I hear a little girl say to her 
mom as they walk by. The mother shushes 
the girl and hurries her along.

Gaijin. Foreigner. Outsider.

I stop in the middle of the sidewalk while people walk around me. Here I am, 
surrounded by people, and I feel more 
alone than I’ve ever felt before.

An older Japanese man approaches me 
and says something in Japanese. I can’t 
tell if he’s asking if I need help or if he’s 
mad at me for blocking the sidewalk. I 
give him an apologetic shrug, turn and 
walk again.

There’s got to be a sign with some 
directions around here somewhere. As I 
walk under the green trees, I hear crows 
call. The sidewalk leads to a hill covered 
with trees and then it forks to the left. 
There is a narrow stone path going up 
the hill. I leave the sidewalk and take 
the path. Maybe I’ll be able to see the 
museum from the top of the hill.

As I climb, it’s cooler under the trees. 
At first I hear the chirps of small birds, 
but then they are drowned by loud caws. 
The crows sound angry.

Someone screams.

I run along the path and stop at the top 
of the hill. Forgetting about the museum,
I scan the steps going down the other 
side of the hill. I can hardly believe what 
I see.

A few feet in front of me, Melissa and 
Zach duck their heads as two large crows 
dive-bomb them from the trees. One 
swoops within inches of Melissa’s head. 
She swings her purse at it.

“Get away you stupid bird!” she 
screams.

At the sight of Zach and Melissa, 
relief bubbles through me. I quickly push 
it aside. Me, happy to see them? Not 
likely.

A second crow dives at Zach. He pulls 
up the collar of his T-shirt like a turtle 
trying to pull its head inside its shell.

They both look hilarious. I burst out 
laughing. That’s when Melissa catches 
sight of me.

“You shut up!” she screeches, a look 
of pure hate on her face. Then she bursts 
into tears and runs down the stairs.

chapter twelve

Zach follows Melissa. The crows fly to a 
tree branch and continue cawing.

I walk carefully down the path, keeping 
one eye on the crows. They squawk at me 
but let me pass. In the branches above 
them I see what might be a nest.

I catch up to Zach and Melissa at the 
bottom of the hill. Melissa is sitting on a 
bench, her face in her hands. Zach reaches 
out to pat her.

I should find this scene entertaining. 
It is totally poetic justice that Melissa was 
attacked by a mob of crows. But her crying 
is taking the fun out of it.

I’d like to walk away, but I need directions 
back to the museum. Maybe I should just 
hide where I can see them and then follow 
them. Before I can make a move, Zach looks 
up and raises his hands in surrender.

“I don’t know what to do,” he says. 
“Everything is going wrong today…Can you 
tell us the way back to the museum?”

I stare at him for a few seconds.

“Come on,” he says. “I don’t know what 
the big fight is between you and Melissa, 
but can’t you drop it for one day?”

By now Melissa has stopped crying and 
has turned away from us.

“Give it up, Zach,” she grumbles. “She’s 
not going to help us.”

“She’s not gonna just leave us here, Mel,” 
says Zach.

“Oh? Why are you suddenly such an 
expert on Dana Edwards?” Melissa whirls 
around, her smudged mascara looks like
war paint. She stares from Zach to me, her 
eyes accusing.

I remember the look she gave me when 
Zach talked to me at the stencil museum and 
how she pulled him away earlier today.

“You can’t possibly think Zach and I are 
having some kind of affair!” I say, snorting 
with laughter.

“God!” Zach sputters in protest.

“Why not?” she says. “I’m sure you’re 
more fun to be with on this trip than I 
am.”

Whoa! That’s about the last thing I 
expected to come out of her mouth.

“What are you talking about?” I say.

She starts crying again and throws up 
her hands.

“I hate it here!” she wails. “I just want to 
go home. I only came on the trip because 
Zach was going. I hate Japanese food! I hate 
being surrounded by people I can’t understand! 
I hate the toilets! I never know the 
right thing to do…And you do everything 
right!”

Zach and I look at each other. He gives
me a shrug and walks away a few steps. 
Somehow this has become all about me 
and Melissa. I sit down on the bench beside 
her.

“What do you mean?” I ask. “I thought 
you hated everything I do.”

“Nothing bothers you,” she says. “You do 
weird. I can’t.”

“Thanks,” I say sarcastically.

“Nothing scares you,” she says.

I assume by this she is admitting that 
things do scare her. I sneak a look at her face. 
Underneath the red eyes and tear-streaked 
makeup, I glimpse the Melissa I used to 
know. Part of me wants to respond in the 
old way and offer sympathy. I take a deep 
breath and look up at the trees where the 
crows have now settled. All their bluster is 
really to protect their nest. Maybe Melissa’s 
makeup and attitude is a form of protection. 
I remember how nervous she was about 
starting high school. She totally changed 
when we got there. She started wearing lots 
of makeup and trying to be Miss Popular. 
Was that how she dealt with being scared?

But then anger rises in me. Poor little 
frightened Melly. That doesn’t explain why 
she started being such a jerk to me.

“You’re so full of it, Mel,” I snap. “You 
don’t even try to like anything new. You act 
like everything different is crap and you’re 
better than everyone else.”

She gives me a disgusted look.

“Look who’s talking,” she sneers. “You’re 
the stuck-up queen.”

My mouth drops open. “What!? No way 
am I stuck-up!”

“Well, you could have fooled me!”

Zach takes a few steps toward us like he 
expects that we’ll be going for each other’s 
hair at any moment.

“Maybe you’re not stuck-up,” Melissa 
adds in a quieter tone. “But you act like you 
hate everyone.”

She looks away when she says this. There 
is something odd in her voice—bitterness…or 
maybe hurt. It touches a raw place inside 
me. I’m tired of this pointless argument.

“Think that if you want!” I say, turning 
my back on her.

“See,” she says. “That’s just my point. 
You block everyone out. You act like you 
don’t care about anything. Ever since we 
started high school you act like you don’t 
even want people to like you. Like you’re 
hiding behind some tough shell.”

Tough shell. Fumiko told me I was like 
Kenji—hard on the outside. I slump back 
onto the bench and face her again.

“So, it’s my fault that you and your friends 
treat me like pond scum. And if I’d just be 
nicer to you,” I make my voice sarcastically 
sweet, “you’d be nicer to me.”

She shrugs. “Something like that.”

“And if you’d been nicer to me when 
we started high school, instead of ditching 
me to hang out with your new friends,” 
I continue in the same sugary voice, “I 
wouldn’t have acted like I hated you.”

“Maybe,” she says.

Suddenly I feel tired. Has my hating her 
been an act? Did she really think that I cut 
her out first?

chapter thirteen

“Hey, so if you’re not going to kill each 
other…” Zach looks at his watch. “We should 
find our way back to the museum.”

“Ah, about that…,” I say as Melissa and 
I get to our feet. “I don’t exactly know the 
way, either.”

“You mean you’re lost too?” Melissa 
whines. For a second, I think she’s going 
to cry again. But then she laughs.

“Good,” she says. “Because I really hated 
having to ask you for help.”

“Me too.” I grin at her like we’re sharing a joke. It’s weird. Nothing has been 
resolved. But something has changed. Like 
the way the air smells after a storm.

Zach looks at us blankly, and then he 
throws up his hands.

“I give up. If you two want to stay lost, 
fine. But I’m going to go look for a sign 
or something.”

He starts striding away from us. Melissa 
and I hurry to catch up.

“Look, there’s a sign.” Zach points to a 
spot where several pathways join.

It takes awhile to figure out the sign, 
but finally we agree on which way to 
go. By the time we make it back to the 
museum, everyone is waiting for us. 

“What were you doing with her?” one 
of Melissa’s friends hisses.

“Learning Japanese,” Melissa says. 
“What do you think?”

I smile. Melissa and I may never be 
friends again, but maybe she isn’t so bad. 

In my hotel bed that night, I have a chance 
to think. Maybe we all have different ways
of protecting ourselves. Melissa has her 
makeup and her attitude. DJ has his stupid 
humor, Fumiko has her cute things. I told 
myself I didn’t care when Melissa and I 
stopped being friends. Told myself I didn’t 
need anyone. Lying to yourself can be a 
way of protecting too.

The rest of the Tokyo trip goes too 
quickly: shopping on Omotesando and 
Harajuku streets where my unique fashion 
sense fits right in, playing games at Sega 
World. I even surprise myself and everyone 
else by challenging DJ to a game (which 
I win). We get to try karoke in our own 
private room on the last night.

When we board the train back to Suzuka 
there is a different feeling in the group. 
It’s like we are an actual group, not just a 
bunch of people who don’t like each other. 
I’m not saying I suddenly like everyone, but 
something has changed.

“Hey, Red!” DJ says, ruffling my hair.

“Hey, loser!” I say back, reaching out to 
flick the top of his head.

“Wait till next time, Red,” he says.

“Yeah, right!” I laugh back. “You’re a 
sucker for punishment.”

As the train leaves Tokyo, I settle into my 
seat and take out my sketchbook. I stare at 
the unfinished manga girl. Something feels 
even less right about her now…Maybe she 
needs a sidekick or some kind of sword-
wielding backup…I’m still trying to decide 
how to fix her when a new idea hits me. 
With a feeling of excitement, I flip to a fresh 
page and begin to draw.

About four hours later, we are back in 
Suzuka. Fumiko and her father meet me 
at the station. I’m glad to see them. In the 
van on the way to the Setos’ house, I give 
Fumiko the manga book I bought for her 
and the drawing I did for her on the train. 
It’s a manga-style version of Fumiko. She 
is standing between a Japanese woman in 
a kimono and a North American man in 
a business suit. They both look at Fumiko 
with expressions of sudden understanding 
on their faces. In a thought bubble above 
the woman’s head is the Japanese word hai.
In a bubble above the man’s head is the 
English word yes. Underneath the drawing 
I’ve written, Fumiko Seto, #1 translator.

“You drew me?” Fumiko asks, sounding 
amazed and pleased. “It is so good!”

After supper with the Setos, I give Kenji 
the book I picked out for him and another 
drawing I did on the train. This one is a 
manga version of Kenji playing soccer and 
scoring a goal. On the bottom of the drawing 
are the words, Kenji Seto, soccer hero.

I watch Kenji’s face as he looks over 
the drawing, and I feel uncertain. Maybe 
I overdid it. I can see his lips mouth the 
words, “soccer hero.” He probably thinks 
it’s totally stupid.

But then Kenji looks up, grinning. It’s the 
first real smile he’s given me.

“Thank you,” he says, his face red. He 
looks away and starts to leave, and then he 
turns back and gives me another smile.

chapter fourteen

We spend more time at the school during 
our last week. We even clean our classroom, 
which is a job students do in Japanese 
schools. It’s supposed to develop team 
spirit and responsibility. I guess it works. 
Fumiko and the others seem happy to do 
most of the cleaning. With DJ joking around 
and Melissa and her friends whining, the 
Canadian group doesn’t get much done.

We also spend more time with our 
host families. The Setos take me to one of
Kenji’s soccer games. I actually have fun 
joining Fumiko in cheering and clapping. 
More people come out to watch than they 
do at our high school games. The cheers 
are also more polite—no boos or negative 
comments.

On the last day we visit Ise Shrine, an 
hour outside of Suzuka. The shrine is one 
of Japan’s most famous, built in honor 
of the sun goddess. It’s been in the same 
spot for almost two thousand years. We 
follow the path through a sacred forest 
that people have walked for centuries. 
When we get to the shrine, Fumiko and 
her family stop and say a prayer. Fumiko 
tells me that the shrine is rebuilt every 
twenty years. 

“My parents helped pull the logs to the 
building site the last time,” Fumiko says. 
“Next time Kenji and I will help.”

“Don’t they use trucks?” I ask.

“No,” she explains. “Many people help 
float the logs down the river; then they use 
ropes to pull them up the path. It’s been 
done that way for over a thousand years.”

“Wow,” I say. It’s hard to imagine being 
part of something that old.

On my last night in Japan, Fumiko and I 
stand across the street from their house, 
looking out over the rice paddy. The plants 
have grown since I arrived. I feel like I 
know a lot more about Japan now but have 
still just touched the surface.

There’s a sound from the house. We 
turn to see Kenji walking toward us. 

“This is for you,” he says carefully as he 
hands me a piece of paper.

“Thanks,” I say, my curiosity rising.

Kenji points to the logo on his soccer 
jersey.

“I asked my teachers,” he says.

I unfold the paper and read the neatly 
printed words, imagining the time it 
must have taken Kenji to get the English 
right.

An old Japanese story tells that long 
ago a monster was going to eat the sun. 
The rulers of heaven created the crow. The 
crow flew into the monster’s mouth and
choked it. Now the crow lives in the sun. 
It has three legs. One leg for dawn, one leg 
for noon and one leg for dusk. Another old 
story says that long ago the first emperor of 
Japan was traveling through the mountains 
and became lost. The sun goddess sent the 
crow with three legs to help him find the 
way home.

I think about the crows in Ueno Park. 
They helped me find my way in more ways 
than one. I wonder if one of them had 
three legs.

“This is interesting,” I tell Kenji. He 
looks relieved. “So now the three-legged 
crow helps the Japanese soccer team?” I 
add.

It takes him a second to process what 
I’ve said. Then he nods and laughs. In the 
rice field, the frogs begin croaking.

“I still haven’t seen a frog,” I say.

“There!” Kenji says, pointing down at 
the water near our feet.

We lean forward, and this time I see it—a 
small green frog. It’s visible for a second 
and then it disappears under the water.

“The Japanese word for frog, kaeru, 
sounds like the Japanese word for return 
home,” Fumiko points out. “So the frog is 
a symbol for a safe return home.”

Home. The three of us are quiet as we 
look out over the rice field. I think about 
the past three weeks. I can’t remember what 
I expected, but I’ve learned that Japan is a 
place of old and new, side by side. A place 
where being part of a group is a good thing. 
And I’ve learned about myself.

I’m even looking forward to going home 
now, I realize. I’m looking forward to 
showing Fumiko around Vancouver when 
her group comes to Canada next month. 
Too bad Kenji isn’t coming too.

“Let’s not say good-bye,” Fumiko says as 
if reading my thoughts. “Let’s say matta ne. 
It means, See you again.”

Matta ne, I promise silently. As we walk 
back to the house I realize I may still be a 
gaijin, but I no longer feel like a total outsider. 
And, I still have time for one last hot, 
relaxing, Japanese bath.